TABLE OF CONTENTS

Contents

SpecOps

Text copyright © 2016 Craig Alanson

CHAPTER ONE

CHAPTER TWO

CHAPTER THREE

CHAPTER FOUR

CHAPTER FIVE

CHAPTER SIX

CHAPTER SEVEN

CHAPTER EIGHT

CHAPTER NINE

CHAPTER TEN

CHAPTER ELEVEN

CHAPTER TWELVE

CHAPTER THIRTEEN

CHAPTER FOURTEEN

CHAPTER FIFTEEN

CHAPTER SIXTEEN

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN

CHAPTER NINETEEN

CHAPTER TWENTY

CHAPTER TWENTY ONE

CHAPTER TWENTY TWO

CHAPTER TWENTY THREE

CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR

CHAPTER TWENTY FIVE

CHAPTER TWENTY SIX

CHAPTER TWENTY SEVEN

CHAPTER TWENTY EIGHT

CHAPTER TWENTY NINE

CHAPTER THIRTY

CHAPTER THIRTY ONE

CHAPTER THIRTY TWO

CHAPTER THIRTY THREE

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER ONE

 

The 
Flying Dutchman
 shuddered again, with
sounds of groaning and the terrifying shriek of metal composites being torn
apart. The displays on the bridge flickered, and the air was filled with alarm
bells and klaxons from almost every system. "Skippy! Get us out of-"

The ship shook violently again. "Direct hit on
Number Four reactor," Skippy announced calmly, "reactor has lost
containment. I am preparing it for ejection. Ejection system is offline. Pilot,
portside thrusters full emergency thrust on my mark."

"Ready," Desai acknowledged in as calm a
voice as she could manage.

"Mark. Go!" Skippy shouted.

Whatever they were doing, it was more than the ship's
already stressed artificial gravity and inertial compensation systems could
handle, normally ship maneuvers were not felt at all by the crew. This time, I
lurched in the command chair and had to hang on, as the ship was flung to the
right. There was a shudder, actually a wave of ripples traveling along the
ship's spine, accompanied by a deep harmonic groaning. No ship should ever make
a sound like that.

"Ah, damn it. Reactor Four is away, it impacted
Reactor Two on the way out, shutting down Two now." Skippy's voice had a
touch of strain to it. "Missiles inbound. Diverting all remaining power to
jump drive capacitors. Hang on, this is going to be close."

The main display indicated the jump drive was at a 38%
charge, Skippy had told us that with the 
Dutchman
 trapped inside the
Thuranin destroyer squadron's damping field, we needed a 42% charge for even a
short jump, and that still carried a severe risk of rupturing the drive. If
that happened, we would never know it, we'd simply be dead between one
picosecond and another.

The missile symbols on the display, seven of them,
were coming in fast. Two of the symbols disappeared as I watched, destroyed by
our ship's point defense particle beams. The other five missiles continued
toward us, fast, fuzzing our sensors with their stealth fields and weaving as
they bored in. One more missile destroyed. Four still moving fast.

Jump drive at 40%.

Too close.

I turned the knob to release the plastic cover over
the self-destruct button, and turned to look through the glass wall into the
CIC compartment. "Colonel Chang."

He nodded, and I saw him flip back the cover to the
other self-destruct button, the confirmation. "Sir." He looked me
straight in the eye, and saluted.

I returned the salute. "Colonel Chang, we have
been down a long, strange road together. It's been an honor serving with
you." My left thumb hovered over the self-destruct button. The ship was
dying anyway. This was my fault. How the hell had I gotten us into this mess?

 

I'd better start at the beginning.

 

 

My name is Joe Bishop, I’m a sergeant, temporarily
holding the theater rank of colonel, in the United States Army. Neither rank
matters much at the moment, since I’m aboard a stolen alien starship over a
thousand lightyears from Earth. Believe it or not, the United Nations
Expeditionary Force has put me in command of our ship, a Thuranin star carrier
we unwisely named the 
Flying
 
Dutchman.
 I have, I think, good
common sense, and, everyone else would agree, a history of getting into
trouble. Big trouble. And a history of getting out of trouble. If you ask me,
I’ve been in the right places at the wrong time. My critics would say that I am
one lucky son of a bitch. My mother is not a bitch, but other than that, they
may have a point. Skippy, our ancient alien talking beer can combination mascot
and artificial super intelligence, says there is no such thing as luck, that
humans believe in luck because our dumb monkey-level linear thinking has no
idea how the universe works.

Whatever.

When the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
 went outbound
through the wormhole near Earth, and Skippy shut down the wormhole behind us, I
have to admit a tiny, tiny part of me was disappointed that the ship didn't
immediately explode into a bazillion pieces. One of our cargo holds has a dozen
tactical nukes from the American inventory, we only need one to vaporize the
ship and erase all trace that humans were roaming the galaxy, but somebody had
a coupon, or they were cheaper by the dozen at Nukes 'R Us or something, so we
had eleven extras. No, they aren't available as last-minute birthday gifts,
thanks for asking. When Skippy confirmed the wormhole had been shut down behind
us, deactivated it this time, not merely temporarily disrupted its connection
to the network or whatever, a tiny part of me hoped that UNEF had somehow snuck
behind Skippy's back and set a nuke to explode right then.

You ever been on a cliff or the balcony of a really
tall building, and you look over the edge with butterflies in your stomach, and
you're afraid of falling, but a tiny part of you wants to jump? A tiny part of
you, that you're afraid you won't be able to control, wants to jump? You're
afraid of being near the edge, because you think you might not be able to
control yourself, that you might feel compelled to jump? I read somewhere that
is because part of your brain can't stand the tension, and wants the tension to
just go away, even if the solution kills you. No? Never had that happen to you?
Hey, I'm afraid of heights, that's why I never signed up for Army parachute
training. Flying in a Blackhawk helo with the door open hadn't bothered me
much, as long as I could hear the engines howling above my head, I figured we'd
be all right. Being on my parents' house roof stringing Christmas lights, now
that kind of thing scared the hell out of me. Scared me enough that, every
February I had argued with my mother against taking the lights down. Why go
through the trouble of taking them down, I asked? Sure, most of the year our
neighbors would grumble that the Bishop family were lazy procrastinators, but
by October, maybe November, we'd begin to look like proactive geniuses. Right?

My mother never fell for that argument. The Christmas
lights were always down by Super Bowl weekend.

In this case it wasn't heights I was afraid of, my
fear was of the unknown, of being responsible for all the people aboard the
ship, and, if one of my screw-ups meant our enemies discovered humans had
stolen a Thuranin star carrier, of me being responsible for the destruction of
humanity. If the 
Dutchman
 had exploded beyond my control, I wouldn't
have to be concerned about my inevitable screw-ups.

UNEF hadn't set a nuke to explode, or they did, and
Skippy of course discovered their plan and stopped it. It would have been
easier for everyone if the 
Dutchman
 had become a rapidly expanding
sphere of subatomic particles. Either way, we were still alive and I had to
continue the mission as planned. Darn.

 

If the 
Dutchman
 had exploded, it would have
killed seventy people. Our new not-so-Merry Band of Pirates was fifty eight
military personnel, and a dozen civilian scientists. This time, we were
semi-officially a Merry Band of Pirates, everyone had on their uniform the
paramecium-with-eyepatch logo that Skippy designed for us. Even the scientists
were given a patch on their official mission jackets, so far I hadn’t seen many
of the scientists wearing those jackets, and I wasn’t going to make an issue of
it. Scientists, civilians, didn’t worry me. What did concern me is that, this
time, the military units assigned to the 
Dutchman
 were from SpecOps
units; elite special forces troops and hotshot pilots.

By the way, when I left Earth the first time, I'd been
current on military slang, at least, US military slang. On Camp Alpha and later
on Paradise, we'd called the United Nations Expeditionary Force 'UNEF',
pronounced You-Neff. That's what people on Earth called it before we left, but
after that, governments had wanted to emphasize the glorious contributions of
their own armed forces to fighting the horrible Ruhar, so they'd stopped
mentioning the 'UN' part of 'UNEF' and just called us the Expeditionary Force,
or ExFor. The name Exfor sounded cool, and it stuck. A bit later, when people
and their governments began to regret the alliance with the Kristang, the
governments in UNEF tried to emphasize again the United Nations part, as if the
governments that were part of UNEF had no responsibility for what had happened.
By that time, it was too late, 'ExFor' had stuck in the public's mind.

The mission was technically under the command of the
United Nations Expeditionary Force Special Operations Command directorate.
Yeah, that's a mouthful to say. And in reality, I was in command all by myself,
because as soon as the 
Dutchman
 jumped away from Earth orbit, we were on
our own. If things went well, UNEF SOCOM would take credit. If things went
sideways, they would heap the blame on me. That's the way it works.

When Special Operations Command assigned our crew, I
first called the new Merry Band of Pirates 'SOCOM', then I quickly learned all the
cool kids used the term 'SpecOps', pronounced like Speck Opps. Although when I,
a soldier who had never been in a special operations unit, tried to be a cool
kid by saying SpecOps, I got some weird looks. I was learning.

Let me explain about SpecOps, or special forces,
troops. My knowledge comes from observing, and certainly not from experience.
Whether they are US Navy SEALs, US Army Rangers, British SAS or in any other
military service on Earth, SpecOps soldiers are all bad-asses, and they know
it. Getting into special forces units requires incredible commitment to meet
tough physical standards, and much more importantly, mental toughness.

You know those guys, or girls, in high school or even
before that, who already knew exactly what they wanted to do in life? They were
completely focused, in great physical shape, getting up at 5AM for swimming or
hockey practice or running or lifting weights before school. They got good
grades, studied hard, never slacked off, the adults always liked them. They
were great athletes, intense even in practices. Most importantly, they were
serious, serious about life, even as young teenagers, at a time when most of us
were drifting along or flailing through life, having no idea what we wanted.
Those guys and girls? They are where SpecOps troops come from. They're better
than most of us, certainly better than me. I am a reasonably dedicated soldier,
proud to wear the uniform. No way could I qualify for special forces. The
physical stuff I could train myself up to do, I'm pretty sure. The difference
is, I would never want to train that hard. I don't have the internal
discipline, or the drive, to work that hard, I simply don't have enough desire
to do it. I greatly admire the people who do make that level of commitment, and
I'm glad I don't have to.

Special forces are the best of the best, and the 
Dutchman

got the best people from Special Operations commands of the five nations in
UNEF. I couldn't imagine the competition that had gone on for slots aboard the 
Dutchman
,
the only thing I was sure of is that I would never have qualified.

Our new merry band of pirates completely intimidated
me. They were tougher than me, smarter than me, more dedicated, more driven,
better soldiers and human beings in almost every way I could think of. And I
was in command of these super humans. Me. I wasn't worthy. They knew it. I knew
it.

 

Part of being officially in command of an actual UNEF
mission, instead of being the do-it-yourself leader of a pirate ship, was the
mountains of official paperwork, even if paper had been replaced by iPads. I
hated it, I had never been good at dealing with boring details.
"Joe," Skippy said to me while I was in my office the day after we
left the wormhole behind, trying to deal with the tedious administrative details
of being a commander. "I have a question for you. Technically, a
complaint."

"Ayuh. Write it on a piece of paper, and put it
in the suggestion box."

"We have a suggestion box?" He asked,
sounding genuinely surprised.

"Yup. It's in the closest black hole. Just drop
it in, and wait."

"Oh, ha, ha. Very funny, Joey."

"A black hole will get you the same result as a
suggestion box, so-"

"All right, I get the message. Anyway, I was
looking at the crew roster database on your iPad-"

"Oh, man, don't remind me, please, I've got
enough of this damned administrivia to deal with already."

"This is an easy one, Joe. I noticed there's no
entry for me in the crew roster. I'm not even listed as a passenger, and I'm
clearly crucial to the proper operation of the ship. I should be listed as part
of the crew."

"I'm sorry, Skippy, I didn't know you
cared." Damn, our super powerful alien AI was sensitive about the oddest
things. He hated it when he was considered differently than any other sentient
being aboard the ship. "You're right, that's my fault. I'll input your
data right now. Oh, and I see you've already helpfully pulled up the input
screen on my iPad for me. Did you save the report I spent the last twenty
minutes writing?"

"Yeah, like humanity needs to read that mindless
drivel. I'd be doing monkeykind a favor by erasing that crap. Sure, it's, uh,
saved."

"It had better be, I already forgot what the hell
I wrote in that report. First item in the crew roster is given name, so I'll
input 'Skippy'. Second item is surname-"

"The Magnificent."

"Really?"

"It is entirely appropriate, Joe."

"Oh, uh huh, because that's what everyone calls
you," I retorted sarcastically, rolling my eyes. Not wanting to argue with
him, I typed in 'TheMagnificent'. "Next question is your rank, this file
is designed for military personnel."

"I'd like 'Grand Exalted Field Marshall El
Supremo'."

"Right, I'll type in 'Cub Scout'. Next
question-"

"Hey! You jerk-"

"-is occupational specialty."

"Oh, clearly it should be Lord God Controller of
All Things."

"I'll give you that one, that is spelled A, S, S,
H, O, L, E. Next-"

"Hey! You shithead, I should-"

"Age?" I asked.

"A couple million, at least. I think."

"Mentally, you're a six year old, so that's what
I typed in."

"Joe, I just changed your rank in the personnel
file to 'Big Poopyhead'." Skippy laughed.

"Five year old. You're a five year old."

"I guess that's fair," he admitted.

"Sex? I'm going to select 'n/a' on that one for
you," I said.

"Joe, in your personnel file, I just updated Sex
to 'Unlikely'."

"This is not going well, Skippy."

"You started it!"

"That was mature. Four year old, then. Maybe
Terrible Twos."

"I give up," Skippy snorted. "Save the
damned file and we'll call it even, Ok?"

"No problem. We should do this more often,
huh?"

"Oh, shut up."

I thought that was the end of it, until five minutes
later, when Sergeant Adams called me. "Sir, I'm looking at the crew
training roster, and Skippy is now listed as 'Asshole, First Class'?"

"Oh, damn it," I hadn't thought anyone would
look at the stupid roster. "I'll change the darned thing."

"No need, sir, it certainly describes him,"
Adams laughed.

"That it does."

"Also, the required training schedule under your
name now lists 'potty training'. I thought you should know. Also it says you
need to learn about the 'bird and the bees'."

"Oh, crap. Skippy and I had a talk a few minutes
ago, it looks like I need another one."

"You think that's going to change anything?"
She asked skeptically.

"Not really."

 

It wasn't only me, every one of the original Merry Band
of Pirates was intimidated by our new all-star crew. The second night after we
left the now-deactivated wormhole behind, I'd gone into the galley at 4AM,
unable to sleep, wanting a cup of coffee and some human company. Before getting
dressed, I checked my iPad for the Uniform of the Day, posted by Colonel Chang
as the ship's executive officer. Most days, we wore cammies, and on Mondays, we
would be wearing dress uniforms to dinner. Today was the standard summer
service uniform, or whatever each country's military had as the equivalent.
When I got to the galley, to my surprise, I found Lt Colonel Chang, Major
Simms, Captain Giraud and Captain Desai sitting at a table, bleary-eyed and
drinking coffee. After I poured a cup for myself, Sergeant Adams walked in, and
I handed a cup to her.

There we were, the six of us, alone in the galley. The
six members of the original Merry Band of Pirates who were still aboard the
ship. We'd been through so much together, so much we hadn't expected to
survive, that I felt like hugging them all. I refrained, because Sergeant Adams
would have punched me if I tried to hug her. Instead, I bumped fists with
Adams, and handed her a cup of coffee.

"This is a coincidence," I observed.

"For you, sir, maybe," Adams replied,
sitting down across from Giraud. "My duty shift starts in an hour."

"Mine also." Simms said over a mouthful of
coffee.

"I couldn't sleep." Chang said simply.

"Same here," I said. I sat down next to
Desai and raised my cup for a toast. "To the original merry band of pirates.
Especially those who didn't make it home."

Coffee cups clinked together, and we all drank. The
cups didn't actually make a clinking sound, as they were plastic, but they had
the official UNEF logo on one side, and '
UNS
 
Flying
 
Dutchman
'
on the other. If by some total freakin' miracle, we ever returned to Earth, I
could definitely see these plastic cups getting smuggled off the ship and
becoming a much-prized collector's item. The six of us started catching up,
because most of us didn't see much of each other between the time we left the 
Dutchman
,
and the few days before departure from Earth orbit. None of us had time to talk
much during those frantic days of loading and preparing the ship, after the
governments on Earth had finally made the forehead-smackingly obvious decision
to send the 
Dutchman
 back out. Every single survivor of the original
Merry Band of Pirates had volunteered to take the 
Dutchman
 back out
again; after a lot of discussion, argument and thinking, and a whole lot of politics
among the governments involved, I had only accepted the five sitting with me in
the galley. Although all the survivors volunteered to take the 
Dutchman

back out, they didn’t all need to come with us, and their governments were keen
on having some of them remain on Earth, for the knowledge they had. Many of the
survivors had injuries, Giraud still had his arm encased in a Thuranin healing
sleeve, and Chang's ribs were still tender. Doctor Skippy’s prognosis was for
Giraud to have his arm out of the sleeve and fully healed in two more days;
that was not soon enough for the French paratrooper, because he said his arm
itched like a thousand ants were biting him. Skippy said that was all in
Giraud’s head.

This trip, I firmly believed, was a fool's errand, a
suicide mission. The original Merry Band of Pirates had pushed their luck to
the limit already, to expect more from them was crazy. I'd been forced to
argue, using, let's say, strong language, with Sergeant Adams, trying to
convince her not to come with us. She didn't have anything to prove, I'd told
her, she had sacrificed enough. What I didn't say what that, although we'd both
been prisoners of the Kristang and scheduled to be executed, she had also been
tortured. I'd seen her scars. Man, she laid into me for that, practically
shouting that I was only saying that because she is a woman, that if she was a
male Marine, I wouldn't pamper her. She was wrong about that, she also hadn't
let me get a word in while she berated me. "With all due respect, sir, you
wear colonel's eagles, but we both know you're a buck sergeant. You need
me."

She had been right, one hundred percent, and I was
damned glad to have her. I was glad to have all of them, people I knew and
trusted. Our new crew were all-stars, to be sure, they were also people I
didn't know. Before launch, I had deliberately avoided gathering just the six
of us, as I didn't want the rest of the crew to think I favored my old
comrades. Although of course I did. There were other pilots aboard with vastly
greater experience and qualifications than Captain Desai, pilots who had flown
the hottest jets, test pilots, top guns. And not a single one of them were
allowed to touch a single button of the 
Dutchman's
 controls, unless they
were under Desai's supervision. Any of them 
might
 be able to be trusted
to pilot an alien starship, Desai 
was
 trusted. Skippy felt the same way.
Regardless of each pilot's official callsign before they came aboard the 
Flying

Dutchman
, Skippy began by calling all of them 'FiNG' for Fucking New
Guy, or Girl. We had to explain to the new pilots that Skippy was actually
being pretty nice, considering, you know, Skippy. One pilot, who I won't name,
pissed Skippy off enough that his new assigned quarters were an airlock. That
required me to intervene, although I could see Skippy's point. That pilot's new
callsign instantly became 'ALliGator' for Air Lock Guy. It's a pilot thing.

"What do you think of the new crew?" I asked
to no one in particular.

Chang spoke first, after diplomatically taking a pause
to sip coffee. "It will be an interesting exercise in international
cooperation."

Giraud nodded, then shrugged. "We will see."

Seventy people aboard the ship. Twelve of them were
scientists, civilians. Of those, seven were women, and five men, their specialties
covered everything from medicine and biology to physics. Competition for a
berth aboard the 
Dutchman
 had been fierce among scientists, a bit less
so after I explained that I did not realistically expect us to ever return. If
it had been entirely up to me, we would have taken zero scientists along. We
didn't need scientists to achieve the mission objectives, and they would be
only more people dead if we couldn't return to Earth. It had not been up to me,
governments around the globe had insisted we bring scientists along, the
original list had several thousand names on it. Limiting us to twelve
scientists had been the best compromise I could get, my final criteria for who
came with us, and who stayed home, was less about pure scientific ability, and
more about ability to get along with other people. What we did not need was a
bunch of genius brainiacs, or, as Skippy referred to them, slightly smarter
monkeys, who had massive egos and became a pain in the ass during a long trip
aboard the 
Dutchman
. That was part of the reason we had more women
scientists than men, too many of the male candidates had failed UNEF's 'gets
along well with others' psychological tests.

"International cooperation." I repeated the
phrase slowly. "Our original crew cooperated well," I pointed out.

"We had to," Chang said, "and our
mission then was to rescue Earth. We were all highly motivated."

"Our crew back then was whoever was available,
right there," Giraud pointed out. "I was only at the logistics base
because my commander sent me, to find out why supplies were so slow getting to
us."

"We sent what we had at the time," Simms
said defensively.

Giraud nodded. "Yes, I realized that when I got
there, Major. My point, Colonel, is our original crew had a sense of great
purpose, we were thrown together, unexpectedly, to rescue our entire planet.
Our new crew has no such sense of purpose."

"And these special forces all think they are
special," Adams remarked sourly over her coffee. "No offense,
sir," she added to Giraud.

"None taken," he laughed. "Some of them
intimidate me," he admitted, and Renee Giraud had been an elite French
paratrooper even before we went to Paradise.

"You too?" I asked. "They all
intimidate me. My concern is these rivalries may get out of hand."
Rivalries not only between nationalities, I also had to worry about how US Army
Rangers and Navy SEALs would get along. Professionally, I hoped.

Adams bumped fists with Giraud across the table.
"Don't worry, sir, we'll get them straightened out." Chang had
assigned the experienced Giraud and Adams to get our new special forces units
squared away, and to set up a training regimen. The new people had to learn
about the 
Dutchman
, the 
Flower
 and dropships for basics. Then
they would move on to familiarizing themselves with Kristang powered armor and
combots.

What I was really worried about was our elite,
gung-ho, intense special forces troops becoming bored. Before we departed Earth
orbit, I had assembled the entire off-duty crew and scientists in an empty
cargo bay to explain, once again, that my sincere hope was we saw zero combat
action. That we saw nothing interesting along the way, that a successful
mission, in my opinion, would be for us to find Skippy's magic radio, drop him
off somewhere, and for the 
Dutchman
 to return uneventfully to Earth. Or,
in the all-too-likely scenario of the 
Dutchman
 breaking down somewhere
after Skippy left us, of us being stuck in interstellar space, with food
running low, and me having to engage our self-destruct. When I told the crew
that, I could see special forces nodding grimly. I also saw in their eyes they
didn't fully believe it. They were trained for action, and action is what they
expected. I hoped to disappoint them.

Our new mission continued to use the UN Expeditionary
Force command structure, the scientists came from many nations, but the
military forces were drawn from only five countries; America, China, India,
Britain and France. Each country provided nine special forces soldiers, except
that America had only four Rangers and four SEALs, because an American
commanded the mission. Each country also provided two pilots. Giraud and Desai
were in the special forces and pilot count, that left me, Chang, Simms and
Adams rounding out the fifty eight military personnel aboard.

I drank the last of the coffee in my cup, and got up
for a refill. The coffee pot was almost empty, I drained the dregs into my cup
and got the pot started on brewing more. There wasn't any breakfast available
yet, other than do-it-yourself toast. "Whose turn is it in the galley
today?" Details like that were Chang's decision as the Executive Officer,
I should have known anyway. There was a duty roster somewhere. Like, on my
zPhone, that I was too lazy to look at.

"China." Chang replied. "We'll get
started in an hour or so."

"That's fine, I'm not hungry yet," I said.
What was a Chinese breakfast like? I was eager to find out. Our crew was
scientists, pilots and special forces. We had no cooks, no mechanics, none of
the usual support personnel. Each day, one nationality among the military
forces would handle cooking in the galley, with the scientists making up a
sixth team for cooking duties. The food situation was going to be interesting,
culinary skill had not been a prerequisite for assignment aboard the 
Flying

Dutchman
, although I knew we could count on the hyper competitive
special forces to do their best. With a fresh half cup of coffee, I headed
toward the door. "I'm going to hit the gym," I announced. Getting
there early hopefully meant I would be working out by myself, without being
surrounded by SpecOps people who were all in better condition than I was. Maybe
I needed to be concerned about my own ego, too.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWO

 

When I was done working out in the gym, I needed a
shower. It was a lung-burning, muscle aching workout that left my legs like
jelly and my arms shaky. Literally, my arms were so weary, my hands were
shaking. Even my fingers hurt. And the six Chinese SpecOps guys who were in the
gym while I was there had been doing a tougher workout. They were already well
into their exercises before I got to the gym, and when I left, they were headed
out of the gym to run sprints down the 
Dutchman's
 long spine corridor. I
felt like collapsing.

In the shower, I had to kneel down, because it was a
Thuranin-sized shower, and we hadn't been able to fix that when we refitted the

Dutchman
 in Earth orbit. Beds had been lengthened to human size by
cutting away cabinets we didn't need, adjusting showers had not been on the
priority list, in the short time we had before our pirated star carrier had to
depart. My shaky fingers missed the shower controls several times, and I cursed
out loud.

"Something wrong, Colonel Joe?" Skippy's
voice had an undertone of genuine concern. "You seem especially clumsy
this morning."

"Especially? Thanks a lot, Skippy."

"I meant no offense, Joe. A clumsy monkey is a
dead monkey; when you're swinging from trees in the jungle, the clumsy monkey
falls and gets eaten by a leopard."

"Ha!" I had to laugh at that. "Not many
leopards in this part of the galaxy, Skippy. My arms are tired, that's all, I
did a tough workout."

"I know; I was watching you. Don't you think
you're overdoing it a bit, Joe?"

"Hell no. Those SpecOps guys, and the women,
hell, especially the women, are super high speed, Skippy. Damn it, I'm in good
shape, and I'm younger than most of them, and they're kicking my ass already.
I'd like to train with them, but the first time one of them throws me to the
mat without breaking a sweat, I think I'd totally lose their respect."

"Wow. You truly are a dumb monkey. How can anyone
be so clueless? Joe, those SpecOps people are completely intimidated by you,
they have a huge chip on their shoulders about you. And about the other members
of the original Merry Band of Pirates."

"What?" I sputtered under the cascading
water. "Give me a minute to rinse off." With a still shaky hand, I
pressed the button to shut off the water, and backed out to stand up carefully to
reach for a towel. "How do you figure that? Those people have gone through
the toughest military training there is, they're the best, they're all
completely, super confident."

"Super confident about most things, probably,
yes. About you, no. Think about it from their point of view, Joe. When UNEF
went offworld, they stayed behind. For one reason or another, they were left
behind, they missed out on all the action. Right there, they all think they
have something to prove, to you, Chang and the others."

"Huh. I guess you're right, Skippy, I hadn't
thought of that."

"That's just the beginning. You not only went
offworld, you captured two alien starships, brought back priceless intel, and
rescued your entire species from the Kristang. Joe, these SpecOps people are
completely in awe of you, you and all the original crew. Yes, they have passed
an extremely rigorous selection process that requires incredible physical and
mental toughness. However, what have they actually accomplished? What are the
odds, that, during their entire military careers, they will accomplish anything
anywhere close to what you did? The answer is about zero, Joe. And they all
know it. Joe, they all think 
you
 look down on 
them
."

"Crap." He was right, I had been utterly
clueless. I'd been thinking only of myself, and not considering how the new
crew might think of their situation. Back when I was in the US Army 10th
'Mountain' Infantry Division, and our battalion first went into Nigeria to
boost the 'peacekeeping' efforts in that region, I had been in awe of the guys
in the battalion that was rotating out. They had been there, they had lived it,
they knew the territory, they had been in combat. They'd done it for real, I'd
only been briefed on it. You could see it in their eyes, too, they knew that
many of the guys in our battalion, including me, were green and had never
carried a rifle in a hostile area. It made a difference. And when it was our
battalion's turn to pull out and go home, we'd changed, all of us. We'd been
there. We knew.

The SpecOps people now aboard the 
Flying
 
Dutchman

had not been there, had not been offworld, had likely never seen an alien in
person. They'd been put through hell on Earth by the Kristang, I'd been spared
that experience, still, I had served in UNEF on Paradise, and they hadn't. Many
special forces units had not made the trip to Paradise, the Kristang hadn't
especially wanted them, and governments on Earth may have been hedging their bets,
keeping most of their elite combat power close to home. At some point, if the 
Dutchman

hadn't appeared in the sky for Skippy to stomp the Kristang like bugs, maybe
the SpecOps people would have at least tried to hit the Kristang. It would have
been a futile gesture to attack the Kristang in their bunkers, and impossible
to attack them aboard their ships in orbit. Any SpecOps action would have been
a measure of pure desperation, to make a last stand, for the sake of human
honor and nothing else. I didn't often think about what life had been like for
people on Earth while I was offworld. It must have been horrible, terrifying.
On Paradise, we'd dealt with the reality that all of our supplies, especially
food, had to be brought from Earth by the Kristang, and we'd seen supply
shipments getting thin toward the end of my stay there. That had been bad
enough, to gradually come to the realization that we were fighting on the wrong
side of the war, that our 'allies' were oppressing our home planet, that if
UNEF didn't follow the Kristang's every command, the lizards could starve us by
halting food shipments.

It must have been worse, much worse, on Earth. On
Paradise, we had been worried about the survival of the Expeditionary Force.
People on Earth knew the stakes were much higher, not only the fate of billions
of humans, the survival of our entire species could have been at risk. When we
went offworld with UNEF, we hadn't known what we were getting into, but we
expected it to be bad, very bad. On Earth, people at first considered the
Kristang to be saviors; aliens who looked like big, ugly lizards, still, our
saviors from the invading Ruhar. The Kristang had saved Earth from the Ruhar.
So when the Kristang began pushing their weight around, interfering in human affairs,
taking territory, taking rare minerals and other materials, at first people
figured that was the price of supporting the war effort, the price of keeping
the Ruhar from conquering our home planet and enslaving humanity. When was it
that most people on Earth gotten the uneasy feeling that they'd made a bad
bargain, that the Kristang, who by then had total control of the planet, were
as bad as we'd imagined the Ruhar would be? I didn't know, that was something I
should ask the new crew about. They probably wanted to talk about it, needed to
talk about it. Needed to talk about it to someone who hadn't lived through it.

"You're right, Skippy, I should have thought of
this. I'm the commander, I'm supposed to know what's on my people's minds. I-,
hey, wait a minute. How do 
you
 know what they're thinking?"

"From listening to them talk, duh. Damn, you're a
dope sometimes."

"Skippy, you can't do that. People need
privacy."

"Joe, I can't 
not
 do that. I monitor every
system on this ship in real-time, that includes video and audio inputs. You
already know I watch you sleep, I watch you in the shower, I watch you
eat-"

"Yeah, I know. Kinda creepy there, Skippy."

"Uh huh, as if I care what you monkeys look like
naked. You're just as ugly with your clothes on."

"Fine. Whatever. What you can't do is tell me, or
anyone else, what you heard people say in private. We must have at least the
illusion of privacy aboard the ship. If people know you watch everything they
do, that's something they can deal with, because you're an alien AI, and to
most people you're part of the furniture, an invisible ship system. If people
know their fellow crew members, or their commander, are spying on them, using
details of their private lives for gossip, that could destroy morale. Do you
understand that?"

"I don't see what the big deal is, Joe. Sure, I
won't tell you or anyone else what I see or hear. One question: what if I find
out someone is planning to do something stupid that would harm the ship, or the
mission?"

"In that case, you do tell me, only the details I
need to hear. Got it?"

"I think so, yes. Damn, you monkeys have such complicated
social rules, for a species so low on the development scale."

 

I just got to my office, a converted storage closet
close to the bridge and Combat Information Center compartments, when Skippy
gave me a warning. "Uh oh, Colonel Joe, heads up. Baldilocks is on his way
to see you."

"Baldilocks?" I laughed. "Who is
that?"

"United States Navy Lieutenant Williams," he
explained.

Williams commanded our four-man SEAL team, he had a
shaved head, hence Skippy's nickname for him. Also, I'd already determined
Skippy didn't like him. I knew that because Skippy told me so. Williams and I
were not best of friends so far either, my impression was he thought I was
completely unqualified for command of such an important mission, that I was
unprofessional, uncommitted, too young and inexperienced, not taking my
responsibilities seriously, and not much of a soldier. I disagreed with that
last one. "Thanks for the warning, Skippy." I straightened up in my
chair, and adjusted the iPad to the ergonomically correct position on the
table, rather than in my lap where it had been.

 

Williams knocked on the wall beside the door a minute
later, the door was permanently recessed into the wall, I wanted to literally
have an open door policy. "Colonel Bishop?"

At the time, I was pretending to read something on my
iPad, so he wouldn't know that Skippy had warned me he was coming.
"Lieutenant Williams. Come in, sit down. How are you finding the 
Flying

Dutchman
?"

"It's still a bit overwhelming," he
admitted. "When we came aboard, I thought we would have somewhat of an
advantage, because SEAL teams are accustomed to being deployed aboard ships.
I'm finding that doesn't apply much here."

We chatted for five minutes, him talking about how
amazing it was to be in space, aboard a captured alien starship, me expressing
gratefulness for how we'd been able to modify the 
Dutchman
 before we
left Earth. Some of the ornate decoration in the bridge and CIC compartments
had been toned down, or painted over. We now had a galley; a place to cook,
serve and eat food, real food. And we had cargo holds full of food, enough to
last seventy people for years. Maybe the best modification was the beds;
sleeping compartments had been cut away so a full size bed fit inside; no more
trying to sleep curled up in a cramped Thuranin-sized bed.

Chang was supposed to come into my office soon, for
our daily meeting, so I decided to find out that Williams wanted. "What's
the issue, Lieutenant? I assume you didn't come in here to chat about the
ship."

"Sir, I appreciate the experience Sergeant Adams
brings," Williams said, "and I welcome her advice. However, she is
not familiar with SEAL, or Ranger, training standards. Or training methods of
the British SAS, French paratroopers-"

"You've made your point, Lieutenant," I
interrupted him. Chang was my executive officer, second in command of the ship.
Simms was in charge of logistics, and third in command. Desai was out chief
pilot. Giraud was part of the French paratrooper team. And Adams, at Chang's
suggestion, I had assigned to be in charge of training our SpecOps people about
the ship, and the fancy new alien weapons they would be using.

"You shouldn't be so cocky, Lieutenant Williams,"
Skippy added, "you weren't even the first choice to lead the SEAL
team."

Williams didn't flinch. "Sir," it wasn't
clear whether he was addressing that remark to me or to the invisible Skippy,
"I know I was the second choice-"

"Fourth choice, actually," Skippy chimed in
helpfully.

"Fourth?" Williams asked, startled this
time.

"Lieutenant Jerome Hansen was the first
choice," Skippy explained, "he turned down the assignment because he
did not want to serve under Colonel Bishop. Hansen felt you were too inexperienced
for such responsibility, Joe."

"That's understandable," I responded.
Probably most of the SpecOps people felt that way. Hell, I felt that way.

"Lieutenant Williams here agreed to serve under
your command, and was originally the second choice. However, he refused the
secret conditions your military wanted to impose."

"What secret conditions?" I looked at
Williams sharply.

Williams bit his lip, and explained. "The DIA
guys wanted me to take over the ship, if I felt it was necessary, sir. I refused."

"Yup, you did," Skippy added cheerily.
"And the third guy they offered the assignment to also refused their
condition, so they went back to you, and dropped their idiot idea of planning a
mutiny. That's why, technically, you are the fourth choice to command the SEAL
team."

Williams looked back to me. "I didn't know that,
sir. I think the mutiny idea was something DIA, and I suspect CIA,
wanted."

"I appreciate that you didn't come aboard
intending to take over my ship, Lieutenant." My ship. I was now thinking
of the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
 as mine. When had that happened?

"I can't promise that no one else has that idea.
We have four other militaries aboard. And I can't vouch for the Ranger team,
either, sir."

"You make a very good point, Lieutenant Williams,"
Skippy said. "Colonel Joe, perhaps I should make an announcement over the
intercom, and create a demonstration of what will happen, if any idiot troop of
monkeys tries to take over the ship. How about I close and lock all the doors
on the ship, and shut off the ventilation? Oooh, and I can kill the artificial
gravity also, that will slow down any mutineers."

"Skippy, you can't do that."

"Huh? Clearly, I can, Joe. Oh, sure, I get it,
you're right, I'll leave ventilation and gravity on in the bridge and CIC
compartments."

"That's not my point, Skippy! You can't, let me
say this a different way, you should not do anything like that. If there is a
plan for mutiny, I need to handle that myself. Having a shiny beer can do the
work for me only makes me look weak, as a commander. I don't need any help
here, Skippy, this is something you need to keep out of."

"You sure about this, Joe?"

"Hundred percent. You know about sciency stuff, I
know monkeys, damn it, I mean, I know humans, people. Stay out of this."

Skippy paused. "I'll make you a deal, Colonel
Joe. I will stay out of this, unless there is an actual attempted mutiny. If
that happens, certain monkeys are going to find out real quick that I am not
always a friendly little shiny beer can. Anybody screws with me, they will
seriously regret it. Ask the former Thuranin crew of this ship, if they have
any questions about that."

"We get your point, Skippy. Loud and clear."
A potential mutiny is a subject that I needed to discuss with my command team;
Chang, Simms and Adams. The entire idea of anyone trying to forcefully take
over the ship is idiotic; without Skippy's cooperation, the ship was never
getting home. "Williams, it is not my intention for Sergeant Adams to
interfere with how you train your SEAL team, she will remain in charge of
overall training. You and your team may have studied how to use armored suits
and combots, you have no experience with them even in training. Bring your team
to the training hold at 1300 hours, and I'll show you what I mean."

 

Arranged along one wall, or I guess aboard a ship I
should have called it a bulkhead, were ten Kristang powered armor suits, there
were more of them in another compartment. We'd taken forty six suits from the
Kristang troopship in Earth orbit, they weren't all in good condition, so out
of the forty six units, we had forty two that were operational. The good news
is that the troopship had equipment for modifying suits, we now had that
equipment aboard the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
, and we'd been able to
adjust most of the suits so that normal sized humans, anyone above five feet
six in height, could use a suit. There hadn't been a whole lot of extra time
before we departed Earth orbit, so I didn't have a whole lot of experience with
the new suits, I did have way more experience than any of the new crew.

In addition to powered armor suits, the Kristang
troopship had provided us with plenty of rifles, ammo, and Zinger antiaircraft
missiles. Except for Thuranin combots, we were equipped almost entirely with
Kristang military gear, including zPhones for everyone, and night vision gear.
The food, of course, all came from Earth.

When I arrived at the large cargo hold we used for
training, it was 1250 hours, and both Adams and Williams were already suited up
in armor, with only their faceplates open. In the military, if you weren't
early, you were late, so of course Williams and his SEAL team had gotten there
half an hour early. Along with Adams was Giraud, the French paratrooper leader
was checking Williams' suit and explaining its features. On the other side of
the cargo hold, Adams was going through exercises; bending over, easily jumping
to touch the ceiling that was ten meters high, and spinning her unloaded
Kristang rifle like it was a baton and she was a drum majorette. Generally, she
was showing off, I figured she was doing it to intimidate Williams, and from
the look on his face, it may have been working.

 

Adams and Giraud showed Williams how the armor suit
worked, and he went through a series of familiarization exercises. He was good,
damn good, he caught on much faster than I had back when I put on a suit for
the first time. When Adams and Giraud were satisfied that Williams knew enough
not to hurt himself, it was time for the show. There was a large circle painted
on the floor, Adams announced that the object of the game was like sumo
wrestling, whoever knocked their opponent out of the circle won the match. They
took positions opposite each other, toes touching the painted circle, and
Giraud announced "Begin!"

Williams, knowing Adams had more experience with
powered armor, crouched slightly, then launched himself forward. He wasn't
going to attempt any advanced hand to hand combat, he was going to rely on the
suit's speed, power and mass to knock Adams out of the circle.

Adams had a different idea. She stood in place, but as
soon as Williams moved forward, a door in the bulkhead behind Adams slammed
open, and a combot launched itself across the hold. The combot's feet never
touched the floor, it flew through the air in the blink of an eye, crashing
into Williams, knocking him to go skidding across deck. He struggled against
the combot, but the Kristang powered armor was no match for the superior
technology of a Thuranin combot. Standing in place and controlling the combot through
gestures, Adams had the combot gently but firmly pick Williams up like a rag
doll and held him against the far bulkhead.

"Enough!" Giraud declared, and Adams
gestured for the combot to release Williams.

Williams popped his faceplate open, looked at Adams,
and bowed. "Well played, Sergeant. You did warn me to expect the
unexpected out here."

"Everything is unexpected out here," I said.
"Do you have any questions, Lieutenant?"

To his credit, Williams wasn't insulted, he wasn't
angry, he had an enormous grin. Getting familiar with powered armor, and
combots, was going to be a bigger challenge than he thought. And special forces
people absolutely 
love
 challenges. "No questions at all,
Colonel," he said to me. To his team, he added, "People, this is
going to be fun, so pay attention."

 

I stayed in the training hold for an hour, taking the
opportunity to gain time in a powered suit myself, it had been weeks since I'd
used one. Fortunately, it quickly became familiar again, and I followed along
with the SEAL team as Adams and Giraud put them through a series of exercises.
It was good, I told myself, for the SEALs to see their commander knew what he
was doing. The truth is, I was showing off, and I didn't care who knew it.
Adams caught my eye a couple times, like when I jumped, touched the ceiling,
did a backflip on the way down, and landed perfectly on my feet. That wasn't
all skill, the suit's sensors detected the floor, and would have pulled me
upright to land safely if I hadn't managed to do it on my own. After an hour of
fun, I had to get out of the suit and leave, because my duty shift on the
bridge started in two hours, and I wanted to grab a snack before then.

Out in the corridor, I put my zPhone earpiece in.
"Hey, Skippy, you call me Colonel Joe, you call Simms 'Major Tammy'. You
call Chang 'Colonel Kong'," Kong was his given name, "or King
Kong." Chang actually enjoyed being called 'King Kong', that nickname had
totally backfired on Skippy. "You call Lt. Williams 'Baldilocks'. You have
some sort of nickname for most people. But you only ever call Sergeant Adams,
'Sergeant Adams.' Why is that? Her first name is Margaret, why don't you call
her Meg, or Peggy, or, hey, how about you call her Sarge Marge?"

"Wow. I am impressed. I thought I'd seen the
depths of your stupidity before, but you're setting a new record low for
dumdumness. You have met Sergeant Adams, right?"

"Duh, I met her before I met you. Oh, that was a
rhetorical question."

"Double duh. Sarge Marge, huh? Tell me, what do
you think would happen if I referred to Sergeant Adams by that quaint
nickname?"

"Um, she'd kick your ass?"

"Most likely. I seek fun, Joe, not suicide."

"Ok, good talk, then."

"Uh huh, sure. Hey, I noticed you showing off big
time in the training hold."

"Commander's privilege, Skippy. Besides, I do
need to maintain proficiency with powered armor."

"Why? You're the commander, you should remain
aboard the ship."

"No way. No way am I staying here all the time,
Skippy. And are you absolutely certain there is no possibility that I will
never need to use a suit, out here?"

He sighed. "No, I can't say that for certain,
Joe. Fine, you have fun, just don't hurt yourself. I won't always be there to
protect you when you do something stupid."

"Got it, Skippy, thanks."

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THREE

 

After leaving the now-dormant wormhole behind, we had
set course for another wormhole. Not the next closest wormhole, unfortunately
the closest wormhole connected in the wrong direction from where we wanted to
go. Despite Skippy's joke about setting course for a random blue star, we did
have a particular destination planned. We made several Skippy-programmed jumps,
then when we were in the middle of empty interstellar space, we programmed our
own jump into the nav system by humans, our very first. My main hope for our
first jump was that we didn't blow up the ship.

I checked the main bridge display for the vital
details of ship status, although I could see the same data anywhere on the ship
with my iPad, it felt more real when I was sitting in the command chair on the
bridge. The very bottom left corner of the display now had, in small script,
the designator '
UNS
 
Flying
 
Dutchman
'. Skippy must have
added that while I wasn't paying attention. The same letters, much larger, were
on a new brass plaque above the door to the bridge and CIC compartments. The
crew, including me, liked that, it made us sound official.

The governments that made up UN Expeditionary Forces
Command suddenly decided, a few days before we departed, that they didn't like
the name 
Flying
 
Dutchman
, and various other names were floated
for consideration. I got the feeling their public relations people would have
liked to run a worldwide naming contest on the internet, if they'd had time,
and if the nature of the big star carrier hanging in orbit wasn't classified.
Navy officers around the world protested that changing a ship's name was
traditionally bad luck. Skippy cut the argument short by stating that he liked
the name 
Flying
 
Dutchman, 
that he controlled all data systems
aboard the ship, and that the UN could name our captured alien star carrier the

Good
 
Ship
 
Lollipop
 for all he cared, it wouldn't change
anything. In the frantic days before departure, trying to get the ship loaded
with all the people, gear and supplies we needed, I had no time for BS like
caring what we called the ship. To our Merry Band of Pirates, it was always
going to be the '
Flying
 
Dutchman
' anyway. When UNEF dropped the
renaming idea, that was one less headache for me.

Back home, I am sure the UN still has an international
committee of highly-paid people studying the issue of our ship’s name. Don't
worry, they will issue a report long before Earth's sun explodes. Probably.

"Jump complete." Desai announced from the
pilot's seat.

"Are we clear, Skippy? No unfriendlies in the
area?" I asked.

"You tell me. You say you need to be able to fly
this ship on your own, so look at the sensors yourself," Skippy said in a
peevish tone.

I wasn't going to argue with him, he was mostly right.
The cold hard truth was that we did not need to be able to fly the ship on our
own, what we did need was some sliver of hope that we might be able to fly the 
Dutchman

on our own, after Skippy left us. Clinging to that tiny bit of hope was the
difference between a high risk mission, and a suicide mission. The crew,
including myself, had signed up for a high risk mission. Super high risk,
admittedly. Risk of the if-
anything
-goes-wrong-we-are-totally-screwed
level. "Pilot?"

Desai answered more slowly than was optimal, and she
knew it. "We jumped to the right place, within, seven hundred, yes, seven
hundred thousand kilometers." The tone of her voice was not filled with
confidence. She let out a breath she'd been holding in. "Yes. Confirmed.
Jump was successful," she turned in her chair to look at me, and gave me a
thumb's up, with a weak smile. Desai had programmed the jump herself, this was
the first jump Skippy had not loaded into the autopilot for us. Skippy had
grumbled and complained loudly at the delay, then refused to check the numbers
for us. "All I'll tell you is, you won't be jumping us into a star,"
is what he had said.

His grumbling about a delay was understandable, Desai
had programmed the jump into the computer yesterday, and we'd then spent the
intervening time checking that the programming was correct. Three different
teams of pilots and scientists had checked the programming, and that was after
two days of analysis to decide what should be programmed into the Thuranin
navigation computer. Skippy reluctantly had restored the original Thuranin
operating system to the navigation system, running it parallel to his own
access, making snarky comments about it the whole time. It wasn't the true
original operating system, the Thuranin ship AI, it was a dumbed-down version
that allowed humans access, and was simple enough for us to use. Skippy
cautioned that if there was a glitch in the system, after he left us, we would
have no way to debug or fix it. To which I had responded that, if there was a
glitch anywhere in the navigation system software, that could only be Skippy's
fault, for screwing up the programming, or missing something. That insulted his
boundless ego enough for him to declare the software perfect, better than
perfect, for he had loaded in his own maintenance and repair subroutine into
it. I never let on that I'd played him, so I could use that particular trick
again.

"Sensors?" I called out to the people
manning the consoles in the Combat Information Center, beyond the glass-like
diamond composite bridge walls.

"Nothing, uh, nothing on the scopes. That we can
detect, sir," came the answer.

That wasn't reassuring. Without Skippy controlling the
data feeds, the bridge and CIC displays didn't contain the helpful color coding
designation for Thuranin, Maxohlx, Jeraptha, Kristang, Ruhar and unknown ships.
No matter in this case, there was absolutely nothing on the scopes within a
quarter lightyear. We'd deliberately jumped from the middle of nowhere to the
middle of nowhere, and we'd only jumped the distance from Earth's Sun to
Jupiter, a small test for a first jump. If there had been anything dangerous in
the area, Skippy would have told us, he was unhappy, not suicidal.

We had jumped only a short distance, and still missed
the mark by over half a million kilometers. No way could we jump anywhere near
a planet with that lousy accuracy, we needed to get better, a lot better, or
the 
Dutchman
 would be spending a lot of time crawling through normal
space. And we didn't have the time, or fuel, for that. We also had a limited
supply of fixings for critical cheeseburgers in the galley. Our first jump
wasn't an acceptable effort; the crew knew it. "The ship didn't
explode," I observed, "we didn't break the jump drive, and we didn't
emerge in the middle of a planet, or next to a Thuranin battlegroup. Good
enough for a first jump. We'll debrief tomorrow morning. In the meantime,
Skippy, can you program the next jump? We need to get moving."

"Whoa, whoa, slow down, monkeys. Have you
analyzed the jump drive system? Are the coils calibrated and ready for another
jump?"

"Pilot?" I asked. The drive charge indicator
on the bottom of the main display read 87%. Good for several regular jumps, or
one really long jump, with the magical modifications Skippy had made to the
Thuranin's crappy jump drive.

"It looks like it is Ok?" Desai answered
slowly.

"It looks like it's Ok?" Skippy scoffed.
"Ok? Such a precise term, I am completely impressed by your
professionalism. Consider that if it's not 'Ok', as you say, another jump could
rupture spacetime and destroy the aft part of the ship, leaving us stranded
here in interstellar space. Forever. By 'us', I mean me, because you air
breathers will be out of luck, once the backup power fails. Yup, I'll be here,
alone, surrounded by the dry, dusty corpses of monkeys. My only hope then will
be that, in four billion years, the collision of the Andromeda galaxy with the
Milky Way will throw some solar system's orbit to intersect with wherever I'm
drifting at the time. Considering that, I'll ask again; and I'll speak slowly
this time. Is the jump drive ready for another jump?"

"You made your point, Skippy." I said with a
touch of anger, I didn't appreciate him bullying Desai. "How about this,
Mister Smartass; you need to show us how to analyze the status of the jump
drive. We're not doing that now, unless you want another delay. Is the jump
drive ready?

"Of course it is. You never let me have any
fun."

"You can find some type of fun that doesn't
involve talking about the ship exploding. Program the autopilot for another
jump, and let's get moving. Also, put together a briefing for us tomorrow,
about what we did wrong, and right, with that last jump."

"Aye, aye, Captain. You will be dazzled by the
brilliance of my PowerPoint slides."

 

When we left the now-dormant wormhole near Earth,
Skippy had programmed a course to bring us to an abandoned Kristang space
station. The Kristang had built a space station in orbit around the innermost
planet of a red dwarf star, not because the planet or the star were in any way
interesting. What was interesting were the shattered remains of an Elder
starship in orbit around the innermost planet, a treasure trove well worth the
expense of the Kristang building and maintaining a space station to establish a
permanent presence there. Sometime around three hundred years ago, there had
been a fight between the Kristang there, or a rival clan had raided the
station, because a major battle had damaged the station badly enough for the
place to be abandoned ever since. 

 

The abandoned space station was both the closest, and
easiest, site for us to investigate. Closest, because of the roundabout journey
we had to take through multiple wormholes, still meant we wouldn't reach the
first site for thirty eight days. Thirty eight dull, boring days cruising
through isolated interstellar space, jumping, recharging engines, jumping
again. And occasionally transiting wormholes.

The first two weeks after leaving Earth behind were
reasonably stimulating, with our new merry band of pirates getting used to
being in space, being aboard a starship, being aboard a captured alien
starship. Setting up a training routine kept people interested, which was
critical for keeping special forces types sharp and focused. The first two
weeks included a first-time jump for most of the crew, their first wormhole
transit, a lot of first things. Firsts were good, firsts were interesting,
firsts held people's attention and kept them from getting bored.

Then the tedium set in. Even the pilots, the only
people aboard who needed to actually do anything other than eat, exercise and
sleep, got bored with their regular duties. Mostly the pilot duty consisted of
waiting for jump engines to recharge, Skippy to program a jump into the
autopilot, and the chief pilot on duty pressing a button. There was always at
least a little tension following a jump, when the 
Dutchman's
 sensor net
determined whether there were other ships around. The crew on duty in the CIC
scanned the sensors, the two pilots had fingers poised next to buttons for
triggering a preprogrammed emergency jump away. Then, when nothing was
detected, after five minutes the All Clear signal was given, and everyone went
back to the tedium of routine.

The pilots spent most of their time, unless they were
sleeping, but often including while eating and running on a treadmill in the
gym, learning how to fly first our Thuranin star carrier, then our beat-up
Kristang frigate and finally Thuranin dropships. One of our new pilots, a
hotshot French flyboy who came to the 
Dutchman
 from serving as a test
pilot for the Rafael fighter, told me the training was beyond tough, it was
crushing, impossible. And he was one of Desai's best students. I told him that
Captain Desai had flown a dropship, then a frigate then a star carrier, with
zero training, in combat. The guy did have a point, I talked to Desai and
Skippy about adjusting the tempo of the flight training. After the first two
weeks, the new pilots adjusted to drinking from the fire hose. Desai started
sleeping more than four hours a night.

Boredom was bad for regular people. Boredom for
gung-ho elite SpecOps people could be deadly. The third week of our pleasure
cruise, two Indian paratroopers suffered broken bones in a training accident.
Thanks to Doctor Skippy's magical use of Thuranin medical technology, their
broken bones would heal fully in two weeks, unfortunately they couldn't resume
normal training until they were fully healed. When we arrived at our first
target, those two paratroopers would be unable to join their fellows in any
action, they'd either be staying aboard the 
Dutchman
, or operating
combots.

I went to the ship's sickbay, nobody wanted to call it
an 'infirmary', as that implied a special forces soldier could be infirm. Which
was unsat. The two mildly chagrined paratroopers were sitting on the too-small Thuranin
beds, not actually beds, they were some sort of form-fitting gel. Both already
had their broken legs encased in hard sleeves, with thin tubes connected to the
beds. The tubes provided nutrients, and nano machines that knitted the bones
and tissues back together, all controlled by Dr. Skippy the mad scientist. Both
of the injured men were eager to get mobile as soon as possible, of course, I'd
already talked to Skippy to assure he didn't release them from sickbay until
they weren't likely to further injure themselves by overdoing their rehab
exercises. Sickbay was crowded, with me, the two injured men, and six
scientists, who were trying to understand the Thuranin technology Skippy was
using.

"Are you learning how all this equipment
works?" I asked the doctors.

"No!" Said Skippy before any of the doctors
could reply. "That would be a huge waste of time, I've told you that. You
don't need clumsy monkeys poking around your insides with crude knives, when
Doctor Skippy can fix everyone up with medical magic. Real medicine, not the
idiot guesswork you monkeys use."

"Yes,” I said, irritated at having this
conversation again. “You have told me that, and I've told you that if, or I
should say when, you find the Collective and leave us, our own doctors need to
be able to use this equipment to care for the crew."

"Never going to happen."

"That is unsat-"

"For crying out loud, stop flapping your jaws for
a minute and listen to me, you might learn something. I doubt it, but miracles
do happen." Skippy sounded peeved, more than usual. "This equipment
relies entirely on nanoscale technology. I'm able to control the nano machines
by the picosecond, and they can move individual atoms around to assemble, or
disassemble, molecules as needed. The equipment was designed to be controlled
by Thuranin cybernetics, through their medical AI. It's a particularly stupid
AI, even you may be able to beat it at chess, wait, what am I saying? No,
that's crazy talk, don't know what I was thinking. It's a limited AI, and the
system architecture doesn't have the capacity for me to load anything useful
into it. It barely has the memory to store details of human anatomy and
physiology. Real physiology, not the ignorant guesses you monkeys have in your
medical journals. Without me controlling and coordinating the nano machines,
the whole system doesn't work. Since your doctors don't have cybernetics, and
Thuranin cybernetics can't be adapted to humans, there is no way you monkeys
can use any of this equipment by yourselves."

"You done?"

"Barely got started, but that's enough
explanation for you."

"Fine. You are, arguably, the most intelligent
being in the galaxy right now. That we know of, right?"

"I am by far the most intelligent being in the
galaxy. It's about time you gave me the respect-"

"Since you are so incredibly smart, then you
should be able to figure something out, for us to have even some limited sort
of control of this medical equipment, at least enough for basic medical care.
Consider it a challenge, Skippy."

"A challenge? Building an escalator to the center
of the galaxy would be a challenge. Teaching monkeys to use real technology?
Impossible." He complained.

"Impress me, Skippy." I knew he couldn't
resist that. "I'll give you mad props if you can do that."

"Great. Fine. You want the impossible. What am I
supposed to do, build a really, really tiny pair of tweezers, so you can move
molecules around by hand? Stupid monkeys. Damn it, I hate my life. I should
have stayed on a dusty shelf in that warehouse."

"Bye, Skippy, have fun." I left him
grumbling behind me.

 

When I was done in sickbay, including listening to the
two paratroopers apologize for having rendered themselves temporarily combat
ineffective, and me assuring them that accidents happen, I hurried to the
galley for dinner. Tonight's meal was meatloaf or salmon, and I was eager to
get there before all the meatloaf was gone.

There was enough meatloaf, what there wasn't much of
was lively conversation. Everyone was beginning to get bored already with the
routine, the time and vast distances we had to travel had sunk in to people's
minds, and the crew were subdued. That, and the training accident had put a
damper on morale.

"Ugh, this room is totally dead. Why all the
gloomy faces?" Skippy's annoying voice came out of the speaker in the
ceiling.

"It's been a tough week, Skippy," I grumbled
while staring at my plate. The meatloaf had gotten slightly cold, serves me
right for showing up late for dinner, and then spending too much time chatting
instead of eating. It was Ok, it had some strange spice in it that I was trying
to figure- nutmeg. Yes, nutmeg. Not a lot of it, but who puts nutmeg in
meatloaf? Looking across the table at Lt Hendrick's salmon in a maple and
ginger glaze, I was beginning to regret my dinner choice. Tonight's dinner had
been cooked by our US special forces teams, the Rangers and SEALs. "And
we've been cruising in interstellar space, in total darkness, with nothing to
look at. We could all use a change of scenery." Skippy had a point,
though, I needed to do something to boost crew morale. Maybe I should assign
someone to be the ship's morale officer. One of the PowerPoint decks, that I
was supposed to study, probably had some advice about maintaining unit morale.
How did a crew keep up morale on a nuclear missile submarine? Those boomers
were submerged and silent for months at a time. Like us, they didn't have
anything to look at. Unlike them, we had windows.

"I know what your problem is, Colonel Joe,"
Skippy announced, "you need to get laid. Hey, Major Tammy, you should mate
with Joe."

"Skippy!" I almost choked on meatloaf, and
Major Simms, who had just taken a sip of water, spewed it across the table in
front of her. The soldier seated next to her had to pat her on the back, to
keep her from choking.

"What? You're a male, she's a female, and for a
monkey, you don't smell too bad-"

"Stop it!" I shouted. Everyone in the galley
was staring at me.

"Hey, you know you need some sweet lovin' soon,
Joe. Major Tammy, you should have seen the raging boner he had in the shower
this morning-"

Now Simms had gone from shocked to amused, her
shoulders shook as she tried to suppress a laugh. Everyone was now trying not
to look at me, and laughing.

Putting my head in my hands, I banged my forehead on
the table. "Skippy, this is private stuff. You don't talk about it in
public. I am Major Simms' commanding officer."

"What, because you're a colonel, you can't bang
anyone in your command? Like 
that
 matters way out here. Well, you could
mate with one of the science team. This is good timing, because most the women
are ovulating this week, so they're extra horny-"

I saw all the women's faces register shock.
"Skippy! Shut! The! Hell! 
Up
!" I shouted.

"Man, talk about ungrateful. I'm trying to get
you laid, you're sure not doing well on your own. Don't ask me to be your
wingman again."

"I didn't ask! And you're a wing 
nut
, not
a wingman." In the future, maybe I needed to consider taking all my meals
in my cabin or my office. "Major Simms, I apologize-"

She shook her head, still trying not to laugh.
"Colonel, we all know Skippy by now, no need to apologize for him."

"Thank you. Everyone, I'd appreciate it if this
stayed between us," meaning the roughly twenty people in the galley.
"And since I know that's not going to happen," I added honestly,
knowing this was way too juicy not to quickly spread throughout the ship,
"keep in mind Skippy said it, I didn't." Dammit, after that I was
never able to look at Major Simms without wondering, you know, what she'd be
like in bed.

I didn't need any more distractions.

 

Jump, recharge, jump again. It was monotonous, and we
had a long way to go to our first target.  When we left Earth to find Skippy's
magical Elder radio, or whatever the hell it really is, we still had the same
problem that made us go to Earth in the first place. When we raided the
Kristang asteroid research base, we'd found an Elder communications node, the
thing Skippy thought should allow him to contact the Collective. It hadn't. The
stupid thing didn't work, or Skippy didn't know how to make it work, or it
worked fine but there was no Collective to talk to, or it worked, Skippy had
contacted the Collective, and they'd decided he is an asshole and ignored him.
I was betting on that last one.

Since the first comm node didn't satisfy Skippy, he
had wanted to check out the two other sites he knew for certain had intact
Elder comm nodes. The two other sites, I had told him even before we went to
Earth, were impossible for us to raid, forget about it, not going to happen.
The first site was on a heavily populated Thuranin planet. The second was nine
and a half thousand lightyears from Earth, at an installation controlled by a
species with technology superior to the Thuranin. Neither site was remotely
possible for us to raid, even with the 
Dutchman
 now crewed by bad-ass
special forces. Maybe, maybe, by some combination of luck, Skippy magic and a
random miracle, we might succeed in raiding one site. The odds were heavily in
favor of us failing, our enemies discovering humans had stolen a Thuranin
starship, and Earth becoming the focus of some very pissed off aliens. That was
not an optimal mission outcome.

Before we departed Earth, we, meaning mostly me, had
convinced Skippy to expand his search, beyond places confirmed to have his
precious comm node, to places that were likely to have a comm node. Sites that
were known to have a substantial collection of Elder artifacts, even though the
Thuranin data base Skippy downloaded didn't list a comm node in the inventory,
could very possibly have a comm node; Skippy said that before the Elders
ascended or beamed up or whatever the hell they'd done, comm nodes were
scattered all over the galaxy. Skippy had grumbled about trying to predict the
location of comm nodes being a waste of time, and that such an analysis would
take forever, in this case 'forever' took him seven minutes and twelve seconds
in meatsack time. After completing his analysis, he had admitted that there
were two very promising sites within three thousand lightyears of Earth, that
were much easier and safer to approach, investigate, and if needed, raid.

The first site was another Kristang research base, the
space station that had been abandoned, after a fight between two or more
Kristang factions left it damaged beyond repair. According to the data Skippy
had access to, the space station had held a variety of low-value Elder artifact
and various devices and doodads from higher species that the Kristang there had
been trying to reverse engineer for their clan, without much success. What
Skippy hoped was the 
Dutchman
’s sensors could scan the debris field
around the station, and our merry band of pirates could board it to see if one
of his magic radios were there. Since the wormhole shift, that star system had
been ignored by the Kristang, and Skippy thought we wouldn’t find anyone there.
He thought that, anyway.

The second site was going to be a bit tougher for us
to investigate, tough enough that I hoped to find an alternative. The good news
is that it was a known Elder site that had been located by the Maxohlx
themselves, but barely explored by anyone. It was a large site, it had been a
substantial and busy facility back when the Elders were using it, so Skippy was
highly confident we found find a communications node, multiple communications
node, there. The bad news was very bad. First, it was a long distance from
Earth, a journey of four months to get there from our current position. The
journey was longer than it strictly needed to be, because we had to avoid
several wormhole clusters that were heavily used by the Maxohlx. The first part
of the bad news was merely inconvenient. The second part of the bad news was
dangerous, extremely dangerous. When the Maxohlx found the Elder site, they had
not been looking for nice toys like communications nodes. They had been looking
for weapons, Elder weapons. Devices the Elders may not have built as weapons,
devices that could be used for incredible destructive effect. Devices, that,
according to Skippy, could make stars explode. And exploding a star was a simple
trick, compared to some of the technology the Elders routinely used.

At the time the Maxohlx found that Elder site, and its
massive destructive potential, they already had a substantial arsenal of Elder
devices that could be used as weapons against the Rindhalu. According to
Skippy's admittedly foggy memories, the Rindhalu discovered that the Maxohlx
planned to attack them, and forced their hand. The Maxohlx had to accelerate
their plans, and launched the attack before they were completely ready. The Rindhalu
hit back with their own stock of Elder weapons, and a war raged for a brief
period, before Sentinels detected the use of Elder weapons, and struck at both
sides. The Sentinels, intelligent monitors left behind by the Elders to prevent
unauthorized use of Elder technology by younger species, did not care that the Maxohlx
had fired first. They did not even seem to care where in the galaxy Elder
weapons had been used; Maxohlx and Rindhalu star systems far from the fighting
were hit by Sentinels, with devastating effect. The purpose of the Sentinels
seemed to be to destroy star-faring civilizations; civilizations capable of
abusing Elder technology, whether they had acquired such technology or not.
Both the Maxohlx and the Rindhalu feared extinction, so powerful and relentless
were the Sentinels. Then, suddenly, for no known reason, the Sentinel attack
halted, and the Sentinels disappeared and went dormant. Sleeping, again, but
always watchful.

Since that time, the shocked Maxohlx and Rindhalu had
held their Elder weapons in reserve, and continued their long war through
proxies such as the Thuranin and Jeraptha, who had proxies of their own. And
the Elder site that the Maxohlx had been exploring at the time the Sentinels
struck had been off limits to everyone, by general agreement. Skippy thought
that, since he was built by the Elders, he could get us there without being
detected by the extensive web of sensors left by the Maxohlx. His plan sucked;
after a four month journey to get close to the site, we would fly in normal
space for another six months, sneaking up on the target by crawling slowly
along. The Flying Dutchman could not slow down much, as firing the engines
would risk detection, so we would need to fly across the final distance to the
target in dropships. Landing teams would spend almost a month in dropships,
under Skippy's crappy plan. After we located and picked up a communications
node, the landing teams would fly back to the 
Dutchman
, and the ship
would continue traveling silently through normal space for another four months,
before we could risk a jump. Skippy's plan sucked. He wanted us to commit to a
fourteen month voyage, into an area of space that was closely monitored by both
the Maxohlx and Elder Sentinels, because he thought we had a good chance of
finding a comm node. I hated his plan, I told him that. I also did not have an
alternative plan.

Before committing to the second target, we were going
to investigate the first target, the supposedly abandoned Kristang space
station. Hopefully, we would find a comm node there. If not, I had maybe a week
to think up an alternative to Skippy's second target.

I needed to put my thinking cap on.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER FOUR

 

Before we investigated the abandoned space station for
real, we practiced maneuvers in vacuum and zero gravity. I ordered the ship to
halt in interstellar space, and Desai flew the 
Flower
 a short distance
away, to act as a target. Then, several teams practiced getting into a small
dropship, flying over near the 
Flower
, and people in suits crossed the
remaining distance to the 
Flower
 as an assault team. Using Kristang
powered armor suits in deep space was very different from playing around with
them in a cargo hold. Many times, Skippy had to seize control of suits to
prevent the wearers from hurting themselves or others. We all learned together,
slowly. The suits by themselves had small thruster units, which allowed the
wearer to prevent spinning out of control, the suit thrusters weren't much use
for flying across distances. We had a sort of jetpack that could be attached to
a suit, the jetpacks were bulky, and we only had fourteen of them, and we
shouldn't need them to get across the short distance between a dropship airlock
and the space station. What we practiced was one person launching him or
herself from the dropship's airlock, carrying a line. When the line was firmly
attached to the 
Flower
, the rest of the team followed by pulling
themselves along the line. We also practiced recovering people who had gone
spinning off into space, that was good practice for our inexperienced dropship
pilots. And if many of those people had gone spinning off into space by
accident, that only made the recovery exercise more realistic. One of those
unfortunate people who had accidently gone spinning off into space and needed
to be recovered had a name like 'Shmoe Bishop', that guy really felt like an
idiot.

After two full days of intensive exercises, during
which every SpecOps team and every pilot had multiple opportunities for
practice, I was satisfied that we were ready enough to investigate the space
station for real. 

 

We approached our very first target slowly and
carefully, initially jumping in to the far edge of the star system, and sitting
there quietly for eighteen hours. Our passive sensors listened for any sign of
activity, no matter how faint, and found nothing. Next we jumped in about a
million kilometers from the target, and listened for six hours, although Skippy
complained that he'd gotten all the useful data in the first three hours. So, I
listened to him complain for fifteen hours, that was a real treat for me.

Finally, we went to battle stations, and jumped within
a hundred thousand kilometers of the supposedly abandoned space station. The
pilots were on a hair trigger for an emergency jump away, they didn't need to
wait for an order from the duty officer. "Skippy," I asked anxiously,
"what do you think? Is this place really abandoned?"

"Give me a break, Joe, I'm stuck with the speed
of light here, everything is incredibly freakin' slow. There are no ships in
the area. The whole area certainly appears to be dead, nothing out there is
generating power. What I can't tell yet is whether there are any hazards like stealthed
mines. That's what I'm scanning for now, with this ship's crappy sensors, it
will take an hour for a full grid search. I have to warn you, Joe, in order to
verify there are no booby-traps inside the station, we need to move the ship
close. I'm talking about physical devices, like explosives attached to
airlocks, that sort of thing. I need to be closer, like within twelve thousand
kilometers."

"Ooooh." Twelve thousand kilometers, that
sounded way too close to me. The distances involved in space combat were hard
to comprehend, all my military experience involved line of sight warfare. Even
in space, with nothing between me and the target, I couldn't actually see
anything from twelve thousand kilometers away. The problem with space combat
was the enormous distances involved, distances so vast that even light took
seconds or minutes to cross the gap. Against the distances separating
combatants were the speeds of the weapons; masers, particle beams,
hypervelocity railguns, missiles that could accelerate at five thousand times
the force of gravity. From our position a mere one hundred thousand kilometers
away from the station, we were in danger from speed of light weapons, which our
shields could deflect long enough for us to jump away. If we went in only twelve
thousand kilometers, a railgun or even a missile could close that distance,
punch right through our shields and knock out a reactor, before we could jump.
Did I want to take the risk of bringing the ship in that close? "Can we
send a dropship instead?"

"No, I need this ship's sensors. This may all
look like magic to you monkeys, Joe, but this is technology, and even for me,
it has limits."

"Damn. All right, Pilot," I said to Desai,
"bring us in. If you think anything is a threat out there, don't wait for
me, jump us away."

"Aye, aye, sir," she acknowledged.

 

There were no threats, and, Skippy declared, no booby-traps.
At least, no booby-traps in the outer layers of the station structure. The
space station appeared to be exactly what that data Skippy captured said it
was; an abandoned wreck. From twelve thousand kilometers, we could clearly see
holes had been blasted in it, jagged holes, and there were structures that had
been torn away like tissue paper, with pipes and cables sticking out. Because
people could get tangled up in those cables flopping around, we needed to avoid
those areas. That was not a problem, we located several airlocks with no
obstructions, and easy approaches for a dropship. There was also an open
docking bay, plenty large enough for several dropships, it was tempting, maybe
too tempting. I wanted a dropship to be able to get away quickly, that meant
avoiding confined areas like an open docking bay that could be a trap.

What I decided was for a single one of our smaller
dropships to go in, with two pilots, me, Giraud, and two others. Giraud had
removed the healing sleeve from his arm and found that it was very nearly as
strong as the other arm, and he declared himself fit for duty. Doctor Skippy
agreed, that was good enough for me. Desai backed the 
Flying
 
Dutchman

off to fifty thousand kilometers away, and I left Chang in command. As the two
pilots of the dropship were British, I chose Captain Xho of the Chinese team
and Captain Chander of the Indian team to go in with me and Giraud, to make our
initial exploration team truly international. It was very important, I thought,
to avoid the appearance of me playing favorites among the five nations that
comprised UNEF.

 

The pilots parked the dropship fifty meters away from
the airlock we selected, and we opened the dropship's own airlock. Giraud went
first, he flew across the fifty meters of vacuum and missed the airlock by only
a meter, he was able to grasp a handhold and pull himself over to the airlock
and attach the line. I followed, with the Indian and Chinese soldiers right
behind, pulling ourselves along the line. The armored glove of Giraud's hand
touched the airlock door, and nothing happened. "I suppose it's too much
to hope the power is still on," he said, bending down to peer at the
dust-covered panel to the right of the door, "after all this time."
Moving as carefully as he could, he tried to brush the accumulated layer of
dust away from the panel, most of it smeared, or clung to his gloves.
"That didn't work," he complained, "we should have brought a
brush with us, or a towel. Where did all this dust come from?"

"Debris from the battle that caused the station
to be abandoned," Skippy explained. "The station's surface was
slightly magnetized from its defensive shield, when the shield was deactivated,
particles were attracted to it. There is not that much dust, Captain, the
problem is your gloves are only smearing it around."

"Do you see any lights on the panel,
Giraud?" I asked. The view from his helmet camera was available on the inside
of my helmet faceplate, I could toggle the display either on my left wrist pad,
or with my chin, although I hadn't quite gotten the knack of doing it with my
chin, I kept flipping the display back and forth annoyingly. The view from his
helmet camera was distracting, he was moving around too much. I pulled myself
over next to him, far enough away not to hover over his shoulder and distract
him.

"It's hard to tell," he answered, "the
light is very harsh here, without an atmosphere to filter it." Giraud had
a good point, all of our zero gravity training had been in deep interstellar
space, with artificial lights provided by the 
Dutchman
, the 
Flower

or a dropship. We should have, I should have, thought of how being in intense
starlight would affect people in suits.

"All right, we can't stay out here, try the
handle," I ordered. The door, like almost all airlocks, had a manual
release mechanism, for use in case of power failure. This door had a nice big,
obvious lever, painted yellow and red, on the right side.

"Trying it now," Giraud said.

I could see his right hand reach out and grasp the
lever, then turn it to the left. Immediately, a loud trilling sound blasted out
of my helmet speakers. "Get out of there!" I shouted. "Retreat!
Ret- wait, wait. Everyone, wait." I recognized that trilling sound from
somewhere. The trilling sound repeated, then I heard voices, human voices, it
was difficult to make out what they were saying. "Skippy, what, what the
hell is that?"

"Oh, that's ‘Soul Finger’ by the Bar-Kays."

"Soul F-. Oh! My! God! What the 
hell
 is
that song doing all the way out here?" I looked around, everyone I could
see had their mouths agape with astonishment. Why in the hell did a Kristang
space station, abandoned hundreds of years ago, have a human 1960s funk R&B
song as a door alarm? My brain almost locked up in confusion.

"What? Duh, it doesn't, Joe, the real airlock
alarm is a boring 'beep beep' sound, I spiced up the signal for you over your
helmet speakers. Oh, hey, you dumb monkeys thought that was 
real
? Oh,
man, this is freakin' hilarious! Hahahahahahahahaha! Oh, damn, Joe, you should
have seen the expression on your faces. Hahahaha! Man, now that was truly
priceless! Damn! I got to do that again sometime."

I was pissed. "No, you got to do that again,
never. Understand? You scared the hell out of me, Skippy. That could have been
dangerous, if someone had moved too quickly and been injured. Everyone, do you
see now the crap I have to put up with from our friendly beer can?"

"Colonel," Giraud responded, "I've told
you before, any time you want Skippy to take a long ride out an airlock, you
let me know, I'll be happy to do it for you."

 

We got the door open, and the inner door, and
discovered there was a thin residual atmosphere in parts of the station. Skippy
warned us not to try popping open our faceplates and sniffing the air. It was
too thin, he reported, and contaminated with dangerously toxic chemicals left
over from the battle. Skippy didn't need to warn us; no one was tempted to open
our space suits.

The inside of the station looked very much like the
inside of the 
Flower
, a standard Kristang design that had changed little
in several hundred years. Our captured frigate the 
Flower
 itself was
almost two hundred years old, and Skippy said the Kristang were still building
frigates that were almost identical today.

Our investigation of the space station took two full
days, and was a complete bust. We found only a few, useless pieces of Elder
artifacts. It wasn't clear who was more bitterly disappointed; me or Skippy.
After forty six straight hours of rotating teams in and out of the station, we
had poked our noses into every nook and cranny of the place, and not found
anything useful. "Skippy, is there any point to us staying here longer?
The Kristang put a space station here because an Elder starship broke apart in
orbit, is there a chance they missed something? Should we scan space around the
planet, see if we find any Elder artifacts?"

"I already did that, Joe," Skippy responded,
"space around here is empty of anything useful, the lizards did a good job
of picking up all the valuable pieces. They should have, this station was
operational here almost two hundred years before the conflict damaged it,
plenty of time to survey every cubic meter of space for a half million
kilometers from the planet. Even dumdum lizards couldn't miss finding all the
good stuff when they have two hundred years to do it. The answer is no, there
is no point to us remaining here any longer, unless you find it useful for crew
training."

The 
Flying
 
Dutchman
 had hung motionless
in space, exposed, for far too long. I wanted us to get the hell out of there
and on to our next objective. Our next objective, which we still hadn't decided
on. I ordered an end to the exploration effort, as soon as the Chinese team
aboard the station could be extracted. "Colonel Chang," I said over
my zPhone, "we're pulling out, get your team back aboard the dropship as
soon as you can do so safely."

"Yes, sir," Chang replied, "this is a
good opportunity for training, but there is nothing useful for us over here.
We'll be back aboard the 
Dutchman
 within an hour."

News that we were pulling out quickly spread
throughout the ship, and within less than ten minutes, Skippy called me while I
was in my office. “Joe, Doctor Venkman is on her way to see you, the science
team asked her to talk to you about-”

“Skippy? Are you about to tell me something you
overhead? Remember the talk we had about privacy?”

“Sure, but-”

“Does whatever you heard pose a threat to the ship?”

“No, but-”

“Listen, Skippy, you want people to treat you as a
person, and not as a computer, right?”

“Yes.”

“Here is what a person would do, assuming the person
is a friend; he would simply say something like ‘head’s up, dude, Venkman’s on
her way to pester you’.”

“I am not calling you, ‘dude’, Joe. How about ‘chum’?”

“Damn, Skippy, you need some context on your
understanding of slang. Nobody has used the word ‘chum’ that way since, like,
nerdy English boarding schools in the 1930s. Chum is fish guts you throw over
the side of the boat as bait.”

“Hmm. You sure about that?”

“Pretty sure, yeah. You call someone ‘chum’ and that
majorly sets off their social awkwardness alarm.”

“Huh. Damn, you monkeys just came out of the freakin’
trees, and already you’ve got inscrutable social rules. All right, how about if
I simply say ‘Joe, Venkman’s on the warpath and she’s on the way to your
office’?”

“Now that’s cool, Skippy, you’re getting the idea.”

“Unbelievable. An entire galaxy for me to learn about,
after being asleep for a million years, and what am I cluttering up my memory
with? The current social customs of filthy, ignorant monkeys. Oh, man, I am totally
wasting my life.”

“How much unused memory do you have? Like, uh,” I
tried to remember a ginormous number that was in some Wikipedia article I had
glanced at, “it’s measured in yottabytes, something like that?”

“Ha! A puny yottabyte? Hahahahahahahahaha!” For a
moment, he was laughing so hard, he couldn’t speak. “Damn that is precious!
Joey, a yottabyte is such a tiny part of my memory capacity, I couldn’t measure
something that small. A yottabyte,” he chuckled, “that’s a good one. Ha!”

“Uh huh, so, you learning about monkey, I mean, oh.
Damn it! Now you’ve got me calling us monkeys. Info about human social customs
doesn’t take up a significant part of your memory, so what’s the harm?”

“The harm? What’s the harm in a few worms in an apple,
Joe? What's the harm in a few bacteria on your food? It’s the contamination
that I’m worried about. Come on, it wasn’t that long ago that the social
customs of your species were limited to picking lice out of each other’s fur.
And, eating the lice, yuck.”

“Hey, those lice have got to go somewhere. They’re
loaded with protein.”

“Oh. My. God. See? It’s having that kind of thinking,
anywhere in my memory, that worries me. To have monkey ideas in my-”

“Hello, Mister, or is it, Captain,” Venkman knocked on
the frame of the door to my office, “or Colonel, Bishop? They didn’t give us a
briefing on military protocol before we left.”

“Hello, Doctor,” I said, rose from my chair, and
gestured for her to sit. “My rank is colonel, my position aboard the ship is
captain, I guess you call me Colonel, that’s the easiest, I think.”

“Very well, Colonel.” She glanced around my office,
nothing more than a Thuranin storage closet that had been emptied out, and
outfitted with a desk and three chairs. And a small cabinet that, so far,
didn’t have anything in it. The only items I had added were a laptop that I
rarely used, an iPad that I used all the time, and a coffee mug that I’d taken
from the galley and not yet returned. No paper, no pencils or pens, no calendar
with pretty landscape photos. Not even a photo of my family. I should have
brought one, there hadn’t been time before we left. “I’m told that you have
ordered the ship to prepare to leave this star system," she said, "to
proceed to the next target, because we did not locate an Elder communications
node here. The science team, myself included, would like you to reconsider. We
would appreciate an opportunity to collect more data about this system. We have
been using this ship’s extraordinary sensors, and have gathered valuable
information, however, the data we’ve collected to date presents an incomplete
picture. Without a complete data set to analyze, we won’t be able to draw any
conclusions. And none of the science team has been aboard the alien station
yet. We've seen the video sent back by the special forces teams, it is not the
same as being there.”

This was a conversation I didn’t want to have,
shouldn’t need to have. We had covered this subject already.

Before we left Earth, I wrote down our mission
objectives, so everyone who signed on would understand exactly why the 
Dutchman

was going back out. And so they were completely, one hundred percent, aware of
the risk they'd be taking by coming aboard. My hope had been to discourage
people from coming aboard. It hadn't worked. Here the objectives are in
easy-to-read bullet format, something I'd seen recommended in officer training
somewhere.

1)
                 

Prevent
other species from discovering humans had stolen a starship, and were involved
in shutting down a wormhole

2)
                 

Where
it doesn't interfere with item 1 above, keep Skippy satisfied that we are
making a serious effort to help him contact the Collective

3)
                 

Where
it doesn't interfere with Items 1 & 2 above, return the crew safely to
Earth, someday, if we can. Like that's ever going to happen. That last sentence
wasn't actually part of the written objectives; it was my own comment.

You might think the order of the first two items were
reversed, that the whole purpose of the 
Dutchman
 going back out, was for
Skippy to contact the Collective. You would be correct about the purpose of the
trip, however that was not the primary objective for the crew. We owed Skippy
our loyalty. We didn't owe him so much loyalty that we would risk the safety of
our home planet and our entire species. Humans stealing a starship was bad
enough, the Thuranin would be immensely pissed, but starships being destroyed
or captured, even by lesser species, was not all that unusual. If the Maxohlx
or Rindhalu ever learned humans had a way to manipulate wormholes, a technology
even they could only dream of, they would rip our planet apart to get our
secret. 

And you might think objective 2 should be simply 'help
Skippy contact the Collective'. You would be wrong there. We didn't know
whether it was possible to contact the Collective, even whether they still
existed. Or had ever existed, Skippy's memory in that area was not the
greatest. All we could do is make Skippy happy that we were keeping up our end
of the bargain, until he either contacted the Collective, or gave up. Keep
Skippy happy that we were making a sincere effort to help him, whether we
actually were able to usefully help him or not. In the back of my mind was a
time limit, of maybe a year, that we would devote to helping Skippy. If we
hadn't found a way to contact the Collective by then, my plan was to gently
convince Skippy to give up that particular quest. How I could convince a
stubborn alien AI, who could devote a thousand years to a task without thinking
about it, was something I'd figure out when we got there. For me, this
constitutes fairly advanced planning, compared to the way I normally do things.

The most important objective for prospective crew
members to read was number three. Not so much the text of that objective, but
its position in the mission objectives order of priorities. Our return to
Earth, our survival, was third in line. Everyone needed to understand that. If
they didn't believe it, they could go stare at the collection of self-destruct
tactical nuclear devices in one of our cargo bays.

Perhaps even more important for prospective crew
members was objective Four. Oh, there is no objective Four on the list, you
say? You are correct. There is no fourth objective like 'learning important sciency
stuff', or 'exploring the galaxy', or 'getting intel about our potential
enemies' or 'gathering useful advanced technology equipment', or even 'engaging
in special operations warfare against the enemies of mankind'. If we could do
any of those not-one-of-our-objectives-things without interfering with the
three stated objectives, then great. If not, that's tough. I was not going to
risk mission success, or lives, to make our science team happy. And I sure as
hell wasn't going to approve any combat operations unless we absolutely had no
choice. Or, I guess technically, not unless engaging in combat was a better
option than not engaging in combat. If that meant our gung-ho special forces
and brainy science team were unhappy and bored, so be it. In fact, I would
consider our mission a complete success if we were able to return to Earth
safely, without a single dangerous or interesting thing happening. Semper
Taedium could be our motto: 'Always Boredom'. I'd be happy with that.

Which is why I was mildly irritated that Venkman
brought up the subject now. Actually, not irritated that he raised the
question, he had a right to ask, just as I had a right to say no. What
irritated me was his attitude, that I had ordered the 
Dutchman
 to
prepare for departure, only because of my ignorance, I couldn’t see the
potential for important scientific discoveries right where we are. What I
wanted to do was tell him flatly no, hell no, and not to question my orders
again. Doing that would have only proved his point that I was too young and
inexperienced to command a starship. Or, for that matter, a rowboat. Slapping
him down would have felt good. Commanders don’t often get to do what feels
good, they have to do what is good for the mission, and sowing dissension among
the crew would have hurt morale. No matter how large the 
Flying
 
Dutchman

was, we had seventy people living in a limited space, seeing the same bulkheads
every day. At least I, and most of the soldiers and pilots, had been able to
get off the 
Dutchman
, go over to the Kristang space station, and look at
something different for a while. The science team had been stuck inside the
ship since they came aboard. 

I tried to let her down gently. “Doctor, I appreciate
your eagerness for scientific inquiry,” I said, surprising myself at using such
fancy words, “and I need to balance that potential gain in humanity’s
understanding of the universe, against the risk of us being discovered here.
The longer we remain here, the greater the risk to the overall mission, and to
all our lives. This star system, particularly, because it previously had a
Kristang presence, has an unacceptably high risk that enemy ships could jump in
here at any moment, and we can’t risk that. I’m sorry, Doctor. You may use the
ship’s sensors, as long as you do not interfere with the crew, until we are
ready to jump.”

“Captain, perhaps we- “

“Doctor Venkman,” I waved a hand to stop her from
talking, “you may be used to an academic setting, where discussion and debate
are encouraged. This is a military vessel, a warship. As the commander, I
welcome advice from my staff, however, once I have made a decision, it is
final, and not open to debate.” We might be traveling between the stars
together for a long time, I thought it important to lay the ground rules early,
and avoid problems later.

I was a hundred percent right. I still felt like a
jerk.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER FIVE

 

The abandoned space station was somewhat of a
disappointment, in terms of our not finding an Elder communications node there.
Thinking longer term for the mission, it was a great success in my opinion. All
of our pilots had opportunities to fly during a real mission, and all of the
SpecOps troops gained experience with powered armor space suits in a real
operation. All of the troops, by the time we left the space station behind, had
experience free diving in space. Other than a few very minor incidents that
were dealt with quickly and professionally, I felt everyone had passed the test
to be a space diver, and I asked Skippy to fabricate a special badge to wear on
their uniforms. The badge was based on the US Army’s Freefall Parachutist
badge, with the difference being we replaced the tail feathers at the top with
an arc of three stars. Pilots received spaceflight wings, similar to the Army
Aviator badge, with the center shield replaced by a five-pointed star.

Sure, the new badges were not official, and UNEF may
frown at the idea if we ever got back home. In the meantime, the crew were
thrilled to be wearing badges that no other humans had qualified for. My
awarding badges began the process of Lt Williams warming up to me, slightly.
After the award ceremony, we had a party in the galley, a party that spilled
out into the corridor because our galley wasn’t large enough. The strongest
beverage available was iced tea, I took a tall, cold glass and made my way over
to Williams, who was talking with his four-man SEAL team. Pointing to the Navy
Special Warfare insignia he wore, I said “Lieutenant, we need to change the
acronym for your team.”

“How’s that, sir?” He asked warily.

“SEAL is SEa, Air, Land, right? After today, it should
be SEALS for SEa, Air, Land and 
Space
.”

 “I think you’re right about that, sir,” he said with
an ear-to-ear grin.

Garcia asked “What would the plural of that be?
SEALSes?”

“Oh, man,” Skippy interjected. “Do not ask Joe
anything about grammar, he butchers the language horribly. Lieutenant Williams,
sincere congratulations to you and your team.”

“For realz, Skippy?” I asked, figuring he was inevitably
going to add a disparaging comment about monkeys.

“For realz this time, Joe. Considering that you are,
after all, a barrel of primitive monkeys, this crew has accomplished a lot in a
short time. I have to give you props for that.”

 

I am not a morning person. I am not even a mid-morning
person. As a soldier, I have to get up early, and I manage to do it, it still
doesn't come naturally. Because of the crew schedule that some idiot put
together, an idiot whose name rhymes with 'Shmoe Bishop', my duty shift on the
bridge started at 4AM ship time, so I dragged my ass out of bed an hour early.
Time enough for a shower and a cup of coffee. Without coffee, I was mostly
nonfunctional in the morning.

What had caused me to wake up an hour early wasn’t an
alarm, or Skippy, it was anxiety. We had gotten lucky checking out the
abandoned space station, lucky not in the sense that we found something useful,
lucky in that we had found the entire star system abandoned, and that we hadn’t
gotten into a fight, or had to plan some sort of risky combat. The potential
for combat had gotten the special forces keyed up and kept them focused, and
gave them experience using powered armor space suits. In zero gravity and hard
vacuum. That was all good.

What wasn’t good was, our next target was still way
too dangerous. When we left the abandoned space station behind, we had set
course for the second target, because we didn't have an alternative. The
advantage of the second target was that Skippy knew for sure there was a comm
node there. The disadvantage of the second target is that the whole area was
closely monitored by the Maxohlx and by Sentinels. “Skippy, I got a question.”

“Good morning, Joe, I’m going to ignore your poor
grammar for the moment."

"Poor grammar?" I asked, surprised.

"You 
have
 a question, Joe, you don't 
got

a question. At least you didn't say that you 
gots
 a question. Damn, you
already butcher the English language enough with your terrible accent."

"Accent? What's wrong with the way I talk?"
I talked the way every native New Englander north of Boston talked. Normal.
Everybody else had a terrible accent.

"What's wrong? Let's start with the way you
pronounce 'car' like 'cah', you leave the Rs out of everything. Tell me, Joe,
were your ancestors so poor they had to sell all the letter Rs?"

"No, Skippy, we save all those Rs so we can use
them on words that should have an R at the end, but don't. Like, my uncle Norm
retired to where?" Which I pronounced 'Nahm' and 'way-uh'.

"That's easy, he's in Florida."

"Wrong! See, he lives in Florider. And the
capital of Maine isn't Au-gust-a, it's Auguster."

"Wow. Incredible. How did you and your buddy
Cornpone ever manage to communicate? With your Maine accent and his Southern
drawl, it's like neither of you is speaking English."

"We don't speak English, Skippy, we speak
American. And we managed to communicate just fine, thank you."

"If you say so, Joe. I have noticed you tone down
your accent around most people. Like, at home you say 'Ayuh', but here you say
'yes' or ‘yeah’ or 'uh-huh'. When you visited your parents, before we left
Earth, you were all like 'Ayuh' and 'wicked pissah' and your 'fah-tha' shot a
'de-ah', and your mother was cooking 'pah-ster' for spaghetti. Most of it was
utterly incomprehensible to me."

"Ayuh. You gots to pay attention they-uh,
Skippy-O."

"Oh, forget it. What is your question?”

“We started looking for this comm node dingus in
places where some database said it should be, right?”

"Ayuh," Skippy said with a chuckle,
"don’t you usually look for something in a place you know where it is?”

“Duh, yeah, that’s not my point- “

“You so rarely have a point, I felt safe to assume
this time was no different.”

My sleep-addled brain being not ready for snappy
comebacks, I ignored his trying to bait me into an argument. “My point is, we
hit that asteroid base, because you knew that place had a comm node. There are
other places that have a comm node for sure, we decided those places are too
risky, too tough for us to hit.”

“In your opinion, they are too difficult,” he said
sourly.

Ignoring him, I continued. “Next you looked at places
that might have one of these Elder comm node thingies, because the place is
known to have a bunch of other Elder crap, right?”

“If this conversation is going to be you telling me a
bunch of obvious stuff I already know, I’ll tune out for a while and let you
talk. Wake me when you’re done.”

“Can we go one step further?”

“Damn it, now you have my attention, on the
infinitesimally tiny chance you might say something monkeys consider
intelligent. Go ahead, amuse me.”

“The first step was to look where we know there is a
comm node, because somebody found an Elder site, got a comm node and logged it
in a database. We already did that, when we raided the asteroid base. The
second step is to look where there might be a comm node, because somebody found
an Elder site, got a bunch of other Elder stuff, and logged that other stuff in
it a database.”

“So far, I am not blown away by your logic.”

“So, step three,” I continued to ignore him, “is for
us to look in places that should have comm nodes, but they aren’t in a
database, because nobody has found those Elder sites yet.”

“Huh? I’m not following you. How are we supposed to
look in a site that hasn’t been found yet?”

“By you figuring out where the Elders 
would

have put stuff, comparing it to a map of Elder sites the Thuranin and Jeraptha
know about, and determining where there 
should
 be Elder sites that
nobody knows about.”

“By how? Guessing?” He snorted.

“No, by,” I searched for the right word to use, “I
don’t know, extrapolating, inferring, deducing, predicting? Whatever you want
to call it. You know the Elders better than anyone in the galaxy today. You can
figure where they would likely have had colonies, space stations, that sort of
thing, right?”

“Huh.” This time, his ‘huh’ wasn’t a question.

“You have a map of Elder sites the Thuranin know
about, and sites the Jeraptha know about, right?”

“Yes, the two mostly overlap, there isn’t much either
side knows about, that the other side doesn’t also know.  This war has been
going on for a very long time, much territory has swapped back and forth
several times.”

“Can you do it?”

“You want me to predict places where we, in this one
ship full of monkeys, will find Elder sites that have not yet been discovered,
by advanced species who desire nothing more than to find technology the Elders
left behind? Species who have entire fleets of ships searching for Elder
technology.”

“That’s about it, Ayuh. You told me the galaxy is
vast, bigger than I can imagine, that even now, most of it is unexplored.”

“It’s unexplored, Joe, because most of the galaxy
isn’t worth exploring. Or it’s too far from a wormhole.”

“I notice you haven’t answered my question. Can you do
it?”

“I’m thinking!”

“Think faster.”

“Joe, this is actually not a one hundred percent
completely awful, terrible, stupid brainless idea. Hmmm. Very likely, very,
very likely, this is a tremendous waste of my time. However, I am intrigued
about how much this will test my analytical capabilities, so, I’ll do it. This
is going to take a while; I’ll need to run simulations.”

“A while, as in you already did it between saying
‘need’ and ‘to’?”

“Not this time, smart guy. Go, I don’t know, get some
coffee, eat a banana, scratch yourself, do some monkey thing, and I’ll let you
know when I’m done. Don’t bother me in the meantime, I’ll be super extra busy
in here.”

 

I took a quick shower, got dressed, walked to the
galley, drank a cup of coffee, and chatted with a couple people. Then I walked
to a porthole to look through the tiny window at nothing, because there is not
much to see in deep interstellar space. Before going on duty, I got a second
cup of coffee, and headed for the bridge. The whole time, I’d been expecting
Skippy to shout in my earpiece that my idea was stupid, and about how monkeys
only wasted his extremely valuable time. Thirty two minutes had passed since
Skippy began his analysis, this was an eternity in Skippy time. He remained
silent until I was halfway to the bridge.

"Joe, I have good news and bad news." Skippy
announced.

Uh oh. Skippy's idea of good news could be bad, so I
answered carefully "Give me the good news first, please." I stopped
and leaned against the bulkhead. If he was going to tell me how stupid I was,
I’d rather not be on the bridge where the duty crew could hear it.

"The good news is I found some very good
prospects for Elder sites that have not, as far as I know, been discovered by
other species. You were right, although my memories are substantially blocked,
my familiarity with the Elders allows me to extrapolate where they should have
had colonies or other installations. What I did was-"

I let him talk without interrupting, even though his
rambling on about statistics, metadata and collating sensor mapping data from
dozens of species went way over my head. He was proud of what he'd
accomplished, it was likely only he could have run such an analysis in so short
a time, if at all. When there was a split-second pause in his nonstop talking,
I took the opportunity to stop him from rambling on. "Amazing, Skippy,
that is amazing. Maybe this is why you have such enormous processing capacity,
so you can find the Elders', uh, legacy, stuff, and protect it. Or keep track
of it."

"Huh. I hadn't considered that."

Before he could go off on a half hour tangent of
speculation about his origins, I asked "Have you verified your data model,
by checking whether it predicts Elder sites that are confirmed? Elder sites
that other species do know about?"

"Verified my data model?" Skippy asked
slowly in amazement. "Joe, where did you learn nerdy tech talk like that?
I am mildly impressed, considering that it's you."

"It was in one of the thousand-slide PowerPoint
decks I'm supposed to study as officer training." Maybe I shouldn't have
told him I was only repeating buzz words. "Did you do it?"

"Yes, duh, I told you I ran the model back to
determine accuracy within a standard deviation of-"

"You 
tried
 to tell me. Remember, Skippy,
you're explaining things to me, you need to dumb it down a couple notches. You
can use real sciency math talk when you're discussing stuff with the science
team."

"Fair enough. Breaking it down Barney style, pun
intended, the answer is yes, my method of predicting the location of Elder
facilities is 96.7% accurate, when compared with a map of Elder sites known to
current species."

"Damn. That is impressive."

"Ahhh, not so much, if you really understood the
data." Skippy said sourly. "The Elder sites known to current species
are the easy to find, obvious ones. The dumdums inhabiting the galaxy today
only find Elder sites if they happen to trip over them in the dark, so to
speak. Almost all of the Elder sites that have been mapped are in star systems
capable of supporting carbon-based life. The unmapped sites, that I predict we
should find, are mostly in star systems centered around obscure stars such as
red dwarfs. I am not yet, of course, able to determine how good my model is at
predicting the location of more obscure, minor Elder sites. However, I am
highly confident."

"Great. This time, your good news, is good news
for sure. What's the bad news?"

"The bad news is where we have to go to check out
these unknown, potential sites. By definition, they are in out of the way
locations, else they would have been discovered by now. The model predicts only
a handful of sites that are conveniently close to our location."

"Well, we will check out those-"

"Whoa, whoa!" Skippy cautioned. "No so
fast, hot shot, let me finish. Of the handful of predicted sites, two are
inaccessible now, the stars they were orbiting have become red giants and
swallowed those planets. Another site was in a star system where the star went
nova; even if that site still exists, it is likely damaged, and we'd have a
hell of a time finding it now, it would have been thrown off its original orbit
in an unpredictable fashion. Three other sites remain undiscovered, but are in
star systems occupied by species with equivalent, or superior, technology to
this ship. It would be substantially risky to enter those star systems."

"There's nothing we could check out around
here?"

"Oh, I didn't say nothing. There are four sites
within a month of here. Two of those sites are good prospects, the other two
are low probability."

"Mmm hmm, within a month from here. How long to check
out all four sites?"

"Oof, you had to ask me that," Skippy
sounded disgusted. "Uh, calculating now, a least-time course would take,
meh, three and a half months, the sites are scattered inconveniently, we have
to take roundabout routes through wormholes to get to all four sites."

"Meh?" I said, surprised.

"Huh?"

"You said 'meh'. Like when something isn't bad,
it isn't great, it's just, you know, 'meh'."

"Oh, yeah. In this case, 'meh' was me suppressing
my instincts, and telling you that the estimated transit time is three and half
months, instead of me saying three months, seventeen days, ten hours, twenty
one minutes and forty eight point two six seven seconds. Roughly."

"Roughly? In the future, let's go with
'meh'."

"I thought so. Also, that is average transit
time, not including time to match course with the sites, fly down in dropships,
explore the sites, all that."

"Kind of implied, Skippy."

"Yeah, you'd think so, but I'm trying to explain
hyperspatial navigation to monkeys, so-"

"Got it. Not all monkeys aboard this ship are as
dumb as me-"

"None of them are, Joe. Well, I'm only
considering standard IQ tests in the crew's personnel files, of course."
Skippy paused. "Oh. Hmm. Did I just insult you?"

"Ya think?"

"Hey, blame that facts, not the messenger.
Besides, I've told you before, that the standard IQ tests of your species, are
woefully inadequate predictors of ability to create innovative solutions
to-"

"Christ, Skippy, you sound like the buzzwords on
those stupid PowerPoint slides that I'm supposed to study."

"Sorry. To dumb it down for you," he said,
while supposedly intending 
not
 to insult me, "somehow your tiny
monkey brain is able to think of things, that my god-like intelligence misses.
Like when you had the idea to get rid of the Kristang ships by jumping them
into a gas giant. Or when you asked me how Thuranin fought in their flimsy
space suits, because it didn't occur to me to tell you about their combots.
None of your original merry band of pirates, who mostly had higher IQ scores
than you, had those ideas. Joe, you may not be particularly smart in a
conventional sense, but you apparently have a talent that is more useful in
your current role; you are 
clever
."

"Space suits."

"Darn it, you had to remind me. Yes, I hate to
say it, but that is a good example."

I was damned proud of myself. As a senior officer, I
may be grossly inadequate for my responsibilities, according to the United
States Army. As an infantry soldier, I had, in my humble opinion, good common
sense, including the ability to ask obvious questions that everyone else was
missing. Believe me, patrolling the Nigerian jungle in full battle rattle, on
ill-defined missions, had caused me to ask a whole lot of common sense
questions. "Thank you, Skippy. You can program us a course for the closest
site?"

"Already loaded into the nav system."

"Of course it is. Great, I'll tell the
pilots." And everyone. No one had looking forward to a lonely, dull
fourteen month voyage to the second site.

 

Sitting in the command chair on the bridge, I was
waiting for the jump engines to recharge. We had changed course to check out
the closest of the sites where Skippy thought we might find an Elder facility
that wasn’t known to the Thuranin or Jeraptha. I didn’t have much to do, and my
mind wandered. "Skippy, something has been puzzling me."

He made an exaggerated sigh. "Darn it, I knew
this was going to happen sooner or later. All right, fine. Joey, when a Mommy
and a Daddy love each other very much-"

"I know about the birds and the bees,
Skippy!" Damn it! I should have known better than to try asking Skippy a
serious question while other people were around. In the CIC, I could see people
smirking, and one of the pilot's shoulders were shaking as he laughed. At me.

"Boy, that is a relief. The last thing I want to
explain is monkey mating rituals. You're puzzled. Is this about shoe tying
again? I think you'd be best to stick to Velcro until-"

"You know why I need shoes? Because I can walk!
Let's see you do that, beer can."

"Whoa. That's the best you've got? Pretty lame,
there, Joey."

"I'm trying to be serious here, Skippy."

Another sigh. "Fair enough. You do understand how
difficult it is for me to take anything you monkeys say seriously, right? What
is your question? If it's not outrageously stupid, I will consider wasting my
time on you."

"We lowly, unworthy monkeys would greatly
appreciate it. My question is about stealth technology. I've heard you say this
ship has a stealth field. And I've seen you detect other ships soon after we
jump into an area. Don't those ships also have stealth? And how does a stealth
field work? We have stealth jets on Earth."

"Wow. Man, there isn't enough aspirin in the
galaxy to fix the headache I'm going to get while trying to explain this to
you. Fine. Listen hard, Mister Bigstupidhead, you might learn something. No,
you do not have stealth jets on Earth. You have laughably crude pieces of metal
that try to bounce radar waves in a different direction, instead of back to the
radar receiver. Or you have coatings painted on your jets that try to absorb
radar waves. That coating don't work so well when it's wet or dirty, by the
way. And good luck to your Navy, trying to maintain delicate stealth coatings
on aircraft in a corrosive salt spray environment. No, you do not have stealth technology.
Your species has glanced the basic mechanics of stealth technology; you haven't
been able to make it work yet."

"Fine. What's the difference?"

"A stealth field bends light waves around a ship.
When a stealth field is working optimally, light flows right around an object
as if it wasn't there. If a ship using stealth is between you and a star, all
you will see is light from the star, the stealthed ship won't cast a
shadow."

"Cool. Is that why sometimes Ruhar or Kristang
aircraft have a fuzzy outline, they're hard to see?"

"Yes, exactly. Although using stealth in an
atmosphere is almost not worth doing, any decent set of sensors can track how
an aircraft disturbs the air around it, and the engines emit a heat signature
that a blind man could see from a hundred miles. There is an important drawback
to a stealth field, can you guess what it is?"

Skippy played the annoying theme music from 'Jeopardy'
while I thought furiously, trying to impress him with my monkey smarts. Light
bent around the ship, radar waves bent around the ship, light- "Hey! If
all the light bends around the ship, how can the ship see anything? It would be
blind, right?"

"Bing bing bing bing bing! We have a winner! That
was pretty good, Joe. Yup. All light bends around the stealthed ship. A ship
inside a stealth field might accidentally fly into, or too close to, a star,
because the light from the star wouldn't contact the ship's sensors. Don't
worry, a stealth field has intentional gaps that allow in enough light for
detection."

I looked at the display. "Huh. That's how we can
still use the sensors when we're stealthed. Cool. But other ships use stealth,
right, and you're able to detect them. Is that more amazing Skippy magic?"

Skippy snorted. "Amazing magic to monkeys, sure.
The answer is no, I make our sensors significantly more effective, however, the
technology for active scanning is used by all star faring species, even dumdum
lizards. Ships use an active sensor field, projected from the ship, to detect
objects around them."

"Wait just a minute. That doesn't make sense. Why
would a ship in stealth, that is trying to hide, project something that gives
away their position? Missiles could home in on the source of that field, and
blow up the ship." Figuring that out made me feel pretty darned smart. My
uncle Bob has a friend in the Navy, on a nuclear submarine, and one time at a
cookout in my uncle's backyard, I listened in while the guy talked about what
it's like to be in a steel tube under the waves. One thing he said is that real
subs almost never use their 'active' sonar, sending out a sonar pulse ‘ping’
and listening for it bounce back. The whole point of a submarine is that it's
quiet and it's underwater and nobody knows where it is. Sending out a sonar
pulse is like shouting 'hey, look at me, I'm a dumbass, here I am'. Using
active sonar invites a torpedo to follow the sonar waves back to the source,
and sink the sub.

"The sensor field isn't spherical, you
dope," Skippy explained. "It has an irregular shape, and it
constantly changes shape, and the field intensity varies throughout it, the
field isn't strongest closer to the ship. To find the source of the field, a
missile would need to first map the shape of the field, and calculate where it
must be projected from. That would take way too long, and the field shape is
constantly changing, there is no practical way to map it. When an object enters
a ship's sensor field range, even if that object is stealthed, it will change
the field's shape, that data feeds back to the source ship. Because the source
ship knows what the shape and local density of the sensor field is supposed to
be at any time, it can tell what object distorted the field. Where the object
is, how fast it is moving and in what direction, an outline of the object, all
that. It gets complicated during combat, of course, because ships try to
distort other ships' sensor fields, in ways that mask who and where they truly
are. Ships can even project sensor ghosts, distort or jam a sensor field and
create a false reading. The big limitation to sensor fields, at this level of
technology, is that they propagate at the speed of light, so they are painfully
slow by the standards of space combat. By the time an object is detected and
that data gets back to the source ship, the object will have moved in an
unpredictable fashion. That makes long-range targeting difficult, even with
speed of light weapons. You fire a maser or particle beam, and by the time the
beam gets there, the target has moved."

"Oh. Wow. A ship can dodge a maser beam.
Cool."

"Oh indeed. Are we done with kindergarten for the
day? If you're good and take a nap now, I'll get you a juice box. Oy vey, I've
got a headache. I need to lay down with a cold compress on my forehead."

"No juice box needed. Could you do one more thing
for me? Explain all that to our science team?"

"Science team? You are referring to the group of
marginally smarter monkeys? Oof, then my head would explode. Tell you what, I
just forwarded a video recording of our conversation to their zPhones, they can
watch it, and save me from having to explain it all over again."

"Great, thank you, Skippy."

"Don't mention it. Seriously, please, do not ever
mention this again."

Having gotten Skippy to smack some knowledge down on
me, I was feeling pretty good about myself. This lasted less than three
minutes. Skippy, true to his word, had forwarded a video of our conversation to
the science team. And to everyone else on the ship. That was great. What was
not so great was, that shithead little beer can had replaced my image in the
video with a chimpanzee. Instead of me sitting in the command chair, it was a
chimp, with my voice coming out of its mouth. And not just sitting in the
chair, this chimp was swinging around the bridge, eating bananas, scratching
itself, playing with its private parts, hooting and bouncing around the bridge,
and other embarrassing things. My first notice that something had gone horribly
wrong, was when people in the CIC began laughing uncontrollably while looking
at their zPhones.

Oy vey.

Now I had a headache.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER SIX

 

Before we made the final jump, to recon our first
target of Skippy’s list of potential Elder sites, I wanted to speak to the
crew, the entire crew

"No chimp this time, Skippy, Ok? No replacing my
image with a monkey, no matter what you think of us."

"Agreed, Joe, that was only funny one time."

"Thank you."

It was a short speech, nothing inspirational, simply
reminding everyone that we were about to jump into a star system that we, even
Skippy, knew little about, and that we might be jumping away with no notice to
the crew. The pilots had orders to initiate a short emergency jump on their own
judgment, without waiting for the officer on duty in the bridge. It was a
simple talk to the crew, that I did not intend to be anything memorable, but,
Skippy had other ideas. I learned almost immediately what he had done after
clicking the intercom button off. I learned about it, when Sergeant Adams
forwarded a video recording of my speech to my zPhone.

Crap. On the video feed to the rest of the ship,
Skippy had replaced my image and voice, with Barney. Barney, the big stupid
purple dinosaur. He hadn't only altered my voice; he'd changed some of my
words. My speech didn't begin with 'This is Colonel Bishop', it began with
'Duh, hello, boys and girls', in classic moronic Barney tones. There I was, a
big idiotic dinosaur, sitting in the command chair in my uniform, talking like
I had an IQ of 30. Damn it, I hate that smug little beer can.

On the other hand, everyone got a good laugh at my
expense, so it was good for crew morale. “All right, all right,” I said with as
much good nature as I could muster, “let’s focus, people, we have a jump in
twenty minutes.” 

 

I took a quick bathroom break, and used it as an
opportunity to speak with Skippy in private. "Skippy, about that Barney
video-"

"Funny, huh? The crew loved it."

"Yeah, hey, you know, there were other characters
painted on the side of that ice cream truck. Why don't you show me as Ironman
or-"

"The Smurfs?"

I'd forgotten about the Smurfs.

"Not the Sm-"

"The only one people remember is Barney."

"All right," I was tired of fighting about
it, "fine, Barney. This is another case where it's only funny once, you
understand that, right?"

"You sure about that?"

"Pretty sure, yeah."

"Uh oh. Hmm.”

Crap, I thought. "What did you do?"

"I can neither confirm or deny, but, somebody
whose name rhymes with, let's say, 'Stippy', may have left behind a virus that
altered your image, on all the video recordings of your intelligence
debriefings in Colorado Springs. That virus may have taken effect after we left
Earth."

Great. Just great. "Some guy named Stippy,
huh?"

"Yup. You should never trust him, that guy's a
real asshole."

 

The jump in was uneventful, Skippy declared within
five minutes that we were alone in the star system. Fifteen minutes later, the
crew monitoring sensors in the Combat Information Center agreed, and I ordered
the ship to stand down from battle stations. Then we began the painstaking
process of searching for an Elder site. The star system, centered on an
unremarkable red dwarf star, had one smallish gas giant planet, about the size
of Neptune. Skippy thought the most likely place for the Elders to have located
a facility, was on a rocky moon orbiting the gas giant. Quickly, the ship’s
sensors identified three large and two small rocky moons, plus two more that
were covered in ice. Skippy warned that locating an Elder site could take
considerable time, as the Elders may have partially hidden it, and most of the
facility could be buried deep under the surface.

He was wrong. “Ah, damn it, found it,” he announced,
sounding disgusted. “It’s on the second largest moon, on top of a plateau.
Whatever its purpose, the Elders didn’t make any attempt to hide it. And
somebody has already been there, there’s debris scattered around the site and
the surface is disturbed from where dropships landed. Crap! We are way too
late. Some hooligans already ransacked the place.”

Hooligans? I wondered where Skippy picked up his
slang. “Sorry, Skippy, but, hey, this is not a failure. I think this is great,
we proved your model for locating unmapped Elder sites is correct, and we
didn't encounter any hostiles when we jumped in, or take a risk checking the
place out. This is the first place we've looked; did you really think we'd hit
the jackpot the very first time?"

"It would have been nice," he grumbled. Then
sighed, I wondered how Skippy decided when to fake a sigh, since he didn’t
actually breathe. "You're right, you're right. This does prove I know how
to locate Elder sites that are not known to the Thuranin or the Jeraptha, or at
least not in databases I have access to. Anything useful was probably taken
from this site a long, long time ago. Joe, when you've been waiting as long as
I have, it is frustrating to get all the way here, and find some jerk has
looted the place."

“Is it worth going down there anyway, to check it
out?” With this star system apparently uninhabited, I wanted to take advantage
of an excellent opportunity for training. Our pilots could practice flying
dropships down to the surface of the moon and back, and soldiers could gain
experience using suits on the mood, in low gravity. Partly because I felt bad
about denying the science team more time at the abandoned space station, I
wanted the science team to also be able to get away from ship, go down to the
moon, and poke around in an Elder site. Even if the site had, as Skippy feared,
been stripped of anything valuable, the science team could learn what an Elder
site looked like, get used to it, so if we found an unmolested site, the team
would not waste time with sightseeing and marveling at the novelty of it.

“Sure, what the hell, why not? It’s possible that the
hooligans who vandalized the place were only looking for weapons, or something
they could sell to buy drugs,” he said bitterly, “they might not have recognized
a comm node as anything valuable. It would be good for you monkeys to get the
sightseeing over with here anyway, when we do find a site that hasn’t been
screwed with, I don’t want to waste time with you monkeys taking selfies and
crap like that.”

“My thoughts exactly, Skippy,” I agreed. 

"Colonel Chang," I turned the chair to look
into the CIC, "how about you take the Chinese team, and the Indians,"
those two teams were currently at the top of a randomly-chosen rotation,
"and a scientist down there, recon the site, see if the looters left
anything useful? If not, we at least gain experience using suits on the surface
of an airless world."

"Yes, sir," he responded eagerly.

"Captain Desai," I turned back face the
front of the bridge compartment, "if flying a mere dropship is not too
boring compared to a starship, would you like to ferry Colonel Chang's team
down for some sightseeing?"

"Oh, I think I can manage it, sir," she said
with a wide grin, sliding out of the pilot couch.

 

Desai set the dropship down carefully, half a
kilometer from the largest building of the Elder site, and Chang took first
three people over to the site, then called in others. It wasn't easy for me to
resist the temptation to micromanage the landing party from orbit, so I pretended
to a calm I didn't feel and went to my office, to give Major Simms more time in
the command chair. And to let Chang and Desai make decisions on their own. After
an hour, I couldn't stand it any longer, and returned to the bridge. Simms
stepped back to her duty station in the CIC. Right away, I noticed something
odd on the main bridge display, a sensor analysis that depicted the gas giant
planet was surrounded by a loose cloud. "Major Simms, what is that?"

"We have been practicing using the sensors, sir,
Skippy wanted sensors to scan the orbit around the planet, we've been trying to
see if we can get the same readings from the data as he does. There is some
kind of atmospheric gas surrounding the planet."

"Good idea," I said, we shouldn't rely on
Skippy for everything. "What is so interesting about this space gas,
Skippy?"

“Joe, I’ve found something odd," Skippy said, in
a voice that I associated with my high school science teacher. "There is a
measurable part of the planet’s atmosphere in orbit.”

“You mean, higher than it should be?”

“Yes, these gases are not technically part of the
atmosphere now, however, from the ratio of elements in the orbiting gases, I
can tell they came from the planet, they aren’t something ejected by a volcanic
eruption on one of the moons. Except, hmm, that is odd.”

“What?’” Truthfully, right then I did not much care
what scientific oddity Skippy had discovered about a small gas giant planet,
orbiting a dull red dwarf star, a long way from Earth. On the other hand, I did
not want to insult Skippy by being openly disinterested. “What’s odd about it?”

“The chemical elements that are missing.”

“Uh, can you be more specific?” Trying to feign
interest, I was about to suggest that he discuss this with the science team,
rather than me. “This planet is missing some type of gas, that, uh, gas giants
normally have?” In a flash of insight, I asked “Is that because this planet is
small, for a gas giant? Hey, is there a special name for a gas planet that
isn’t a giant? Do we call it a gas normal, something like that?”

“We don’t- “

“If the planet was much smaller, it couldn’t be made
of gas, right? The gravity would be too low to contain the gas, and it would
escape into space, be boiled off by the solar wind?” Man, I was proud of myself
for thinking that on my own, I remembered reading that the reason the
atmosphere of Mars was so thin, was that most of it had been blown away by the
Sun’s solar wind over millions of years.

“Yes, that is both correct, and irrelevant to the
current situation,” he said. “This planet has a normal distribution of gases,
for a planet of this size, considering the gaseous composition of its star. The
odd part, which I was about to tell you before you side tracked me with your
moronic speculation on a subject you know zero about, is that there are gases
present in the planet’s atmosphere, that are almost entirely missing from the
cloud of gases enveloping the planet in low orbit. For example, and most
telling, helium 3.”

Moronic? Now I was insulted, and figured this was a
challenge. “Well, uh, some elements are lighter, and so those would have been
pushed out of orbit by the solar wind here? And the heavy gases would have
fallen back into the atmosphere.”

“Joe?”

“Yes?”

“Here’s a quote I read, from a smart monkey: 'it is better
to remain silent and be thought an idiot, than to speak and remove all doubt'.”

“Oh, that’s hilarious, you shithead.”

“Me a shithead? You’ve been giving me guesses that are
about on the level of astrology in terms of scientific relevance. If you will 
please
,
shut your pie hole for a moment, I will smack some actual, useful knowledge on
you. Knowledge that, as the commander of this mission, and man, every time you
open your mouth, I realize what a gargantuan mistake that was to put you in
command of anything more important that a lemonade stand, you should be
interested to hear, because it represents a potential threat to the ship.”

“Shutting up now,” I said in all seriousness.

“Great. Finally. Planets that are surrounded by an
orbiting mixture of atmospheric gases are not unusual, I have seen them many
times before. It is not the fact that this planet is surrounded by escaped
gases that is interesting, what is interesting is why those gases are likely
there. My guess, and when I make a guess it is based on solid data and rational
analysis, unlike the idiotic BS that comes out of your mouth, my guess is that
those gases are in orbit because they were pulled up in the process of ships
extracting useful gases from the atmosphere. Starships use gas giant planets as
a supply of elements for fuel, reaction mass, and other purposes, depending on
the technology of the ships involved.”

“Holy crap!” I gasped. “You’re telling me this damned
planet is a gas station?”

“Sort of, yes. Not the sort of gas station that has a
convenience store where you can buy Slurpees and week-old hot dogs. Maybe, it
is more of an inconvenience store, where you have to make everything from the
basic elements. But yes, the sensor data points to this planet having been used
to extract starship fuel, in the past.”

“Past, like, yesterday, or like, a million years ago?”
I asked anxiously. To Skippy, who had existed possibly for millions of years,
time had a totally different meaning than it did for modern-day humans, who
measure time mostly in terms of TV show seasons.

“That is difficult to tell, even for me, Joe. We don’t
have enough long-term data about this star system, for me to accurately
forecast timelines.”

“Give me a wild guess, was it more or less than a
thousand years ago?”

“Oh, in that case, less. Not yesterday, either. Maybe,
within the last year. Or, hmm, I’m running an extrapolation here, maybe, more
like within the last month, based on dispersement of the waste gases. Possibly
less than a month, there is a whole lot of waste gas in orbit here. And, while
this star is nothing special, it is conveniently located between two wormhole
clusters, so it is a particularly good candidate as a frequently-used refueling
stop.”

“Do we need to get out of here immediately, or not?”

“That, Joe, is a judgment call you need to make."

“Crap.” All decisions, ultimately, fell to the
commander. “Damn it. Major Simms, recall the landing party. Right now. Get them
back to the dropship and off the surface, as soon as possible, and tell them I
do not care what interesting sciency stuff they are doing down there. Pilot,
Skippy, I need jump options to get the 
Dutchman
 out of here, if needed.”

Through the glass wall, I could see Simms talking into
her microphone, she was shaking her head, then she looked at me. "Sir,
Captain Desai reports that her dropship is forty kilometers from the main site,
she landed there so four people could check out some outbuildings. She has
recalled the second landing party, and estimates she can retrieve those people
and be headed back to the main site in twenty five minutes. Colonel Chang told
her it will take forty minutes for his team to reach the evac site, he has some
people down in an access shaft far beneath the surface, they think they may
have found a section of the base that has not been looted."

"Damn it. While I commend Chang's initiative, his
timing is less than optimal. All right, signal Desai and Chang to move as
quickly as they can do so safely, I don't want someone getting into an
accident, and this becoming a rescue operation."

"Yes, sir." Simms acknowledged.

Adams stepped around the corner from the CIC to talk
with me. "We're bugging out of this system already, sir?"

What she didn't say, and I could see in her eyes, was
that here we had a confirmed Elder site, which we had not fully explored, and
that perhaps we were being hasty about abandoning it just because of some gas
floating above the planet. Another potential Elder site might not be any
better, and we'd be wasting this opportunity. "No, we're not leaving, not
yet. What we are doing is picking up our landing party so they won't be left
behind if we have to jump out of here. I let a large party go down there,
partly to gain experience, on the assumption this star system was safe,
uninhabited. Now we learn that this system may be a high traffic area, because
the planet below us is a gas station. We're going to pull back, and assess the
data. If the risk looks manageable, we will figure out a better way to explore
the site, with multiple options for quick evac." Looking back, it might
have been foolhardy of me to use an Elder site as an opportunity to give people
experience in armor suits on the surface of an airless moon. With both sides of
the war dedicating ships to searching for Elder sites, I should have selected a
less important place for training. What I should have done is ask Skippy to
suggest a completely uninteresting star system, and take the ship there for a
dedicated week of training. Extending the mission by a week would be a small
price to pay, for having pilots with experience landing dropships, and soldiers
and scientists gaining experience walking around and working in Kristang space
suits. This situation needed to be added to my list of opportunities for me to
learn from.

 Adams nodded slowly, looking at me carefully. She
still thought of me as a buck sergeant, and her instincts as an experienced
staff sergeant were to offer me gentle, nudging guidance in what she considered
the right direction. I knew what she was thinking; that I was so inexperienced
as a commander, I was afraid to take even reasonable risks. "Yes,
sir."

 

Maybe I was being hasty, too risk averse. The four
people in Desai's secondary landing party, who had been checking out structures
away from the main Elder base, were almost back to the dropship, I was watching
a video feed from the dropship. Four people, carefully loping across the rocky
surface of the moon, kicking up puffs of dust as they walked, bouncing lightly.
Damn, I envied them. Even though I had trained in a suit, trained in zero
gravity, low gravity, high gravity, in vacuum and simulated thick atmosphere,
all the training had taken place aboard the 
Dutchman
. I wanted to walk
on the surface of a real moon, I wanted to feel like an astronaut. There I was,
commander of a starship, and at the moment, I envied three Indian soldiers and
one Australian scientist, who were striding confidently back to the- 

“Uh oh! Joe, jump option Echo, right now. 
Now
!”
Skippy shouted.

I nodded to the pilot, and she pressed the proper
button. In a flash, the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
 moved, the image on the
main bridge display changed from the surface of a moon, to the cloud tops of
the gas giant. Cloud tops, as in, it looked like we could reach out and touch
them. “Where are we?” I asked, alarmed. "What happened?"

“Don’t worry, Joe, we’re safely above the atmosphere
despite what it looks like, we jumped into an area with an intense magnetic
field, and I’ve engaged stealth. Two Kristang ships jumped in near the planet,
we were on the other side of the moon, I believe we jumped quickly enough that
they did not detect the gamma ray signature of our jump out. We’re now over the
planet’s horizon, that should have shielded our jump in from being seen also.
The Kristang, overall, have crappy sensors on their ships, they have
concentrated on upgrading weapons technology at the expense of sensors, which is
a mistake the stupid lizards have been making for a very long time, they never
learn. Hmm, two more Kristang ships have jumped in. Two, three, five more.
That’s seven Kristang ships, a typical task force."

"What type of ships?"

"It looks like, I'm checking the data as it comes
in, one battlecruiser, two cruisers, two destroyers, a troop transport and a
support ship."

“Can they see us?”

“No. No way, Joe. Our Thuranin stealth field, plus my
own awesome enhancements, are quite effectively shielding us from the laughably
useless sensors the lizards have. We are also encased in the planet’s magnetic
field, which distorts the sensor fields of the Kristang. So, no, they do not
know we are here.”

“What about the landing party? Have the Kristang seen
them?”

“No, not that I am able to determine from Kristang
ship to ship transmissions, the lizards do not appear to have any interest in
the Elder site, that confirms my suspicion that multiple species have picked
over that site, over many years. Just before we jumped, I signaled the landing
party that enemy ships are in system, Captain Desai will have detected their
inbound jump signatures. I am sure she has engaged the dropship’s stealth field
and maintained communications security, and that Colonel Chang has concealed
his team within the Elder facility. Our sensors are no longer able to detect
the dropship, which leads me to believe it is effectively stealthed. Unless
either Desai or Chang break discipline, something that would greatly surprise
me, even given what little I know of them, the Kristang will not learn of their
presence on the surface there.”

Relieved for the moment, I took in a deep breath and
let it out slowly, like a yoga thing, except that I’d never taken a yoga class.
My sister had been big into yoga for a while. “Fine, great. The critical
factor, then, is, how much oxygen does the landing party have?”

“There are two critical factors, Joe," he
corrected me. "How much oxygen the landing party has in their suits, and
how long the Kristang intend to remain here? Assuming Colonel Chang orders the
landing party to lay down, rest, and conserve oxygen, they should have enough
in their suits for thirty two hours. Considering that they will need to walk
back out to the dropship, and during that time they will be increasing their
oxygen usage, thirty hours is the practical limit. As to the Kristang, from
their communications, I have determined they are in this system because they
were dropped off by a Thuranin star carrier that is going in a different
direction, and they are waiting to be picked up by a different star carrier in
thirty six hours. The Kristang are here to practice fleet maneuvers, and for a
refueling exercise. The support ship is capable of extracting fuel from the
atmosphere of a gas giant planet, its tanks are now almost full, so it will not
be going through the actual fuel extraction and refining entire process, which
typically takes six to eight days for the Kristang. For this exercise, the
support ship will only practice lowering its refueling line into the atmosphere
and maintaining a stable position in orbit. The other ships will be conducting
war game exercises, I do not have the details, as they have not been included
in ship to ship transmissions."

“Thirty six hours? That’s too late, uh, wait, if
they’re going to be picked up by the Thuranin, though, they’d want to be at the
rendezvous point plenty ahead of time?” For our landing party, I wanted plenty
of cushion on their oxygen supply.

“Absolutely. The Thuranin have zero patience for
stragglers, their star carriers do not wait for anyone, sometimes including
other Thuranin ships. They have been known to leave behind Kristang ships that
have been as little as ten minutes late to a rendezvous. I expect the Kristang
will want to be certain to arrive at the rendezvous point at least four hours
ahead of time, so they should depart here ten or twelve hours ahead of
time."

I made a long, low whistle of dismay. "Whoooo,
that is cutting it very close. Thirty hours of oxygen for the landing team, and
the Kristang will be here for another twenty four to twenty six hours?"

"The math is brutal, yes."

"Can we get a message to the landing party?"

"Not from here at the moment, but in roughly two
hours, we and the moon will be in position to send a tight-beam burst
transmission, with minimal risk of detection by the Kristang. Unless, of
course, there is a Kristang ship between us and the moon at the time."

"We're going to wait, sir?" Simms asked
skeptically.

"Skippy, what are our chances of taking on seven Kristang
ships? Five warships, right," I asked hopefully, "we don't count the
troop transport or the support ship?"

"Do not ignore those two lesser combatants,
Colonel Joe, they are equipped with missiles and masers, and four of the troop
transport's dropships also carry missiles. The Kristang could hurt us badly in
a fight, a star carrier's best defense is to run away. I do not like the odds
of us engaging seven ships. There is also the problem that other Kristang
ships, I do not yet have a count, are waiting at the edge of this star system.
They could quickly be brought in as reinforcements."

"This isn't a simple standup fight," I
explained to Simms, "we would be vulnerable while we're standing still to
recover the landing party. And as soon as the Kristang see what we're doing,
they for sure will target the landing party, we won't be able to protect them.
We wait. We send a signal to the landing party in about two hours, and we wait
for the Kristang to go away. It sucks, but that's what we do, we wait."

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER SEVEN

 

We waited. It did suck. Right at the two hour and
three minute mark, we shot a communications maser toward the moon, advising the
landing party about the situation, the rough timelines for us to recover them,
and ordering them not risk sending a reply. Then we waited some more, a lot
more.

After my duty shift on the bridge was over, I
surrendered the chair to Sergeant Adams. Part of me wanted to stay in the chair
for the full twenty six hours, to not miss a second while my crew stretched out
their dwindling oxygen supply. The crew I had ordered to the surface, and put
in danger, the crew I was responsible for. Needing something to do, I went to
the gym and ran on a treadmill, headphones on and not in a mood for chit chat,
other people in the gym left me alone. Following an hour of sweating on the
treadmill, I took a shower, got a snack from the galley, and went to my office.
Skippy pinged me through my zPhone, that meant he wanted to talk privately.
Putting in my zPhone earpiece, I said "Hey, Skippy, more bad news?"

"Since 'news' is by definition new information,
there is no news. The situation has not changed."

From the display on my iPad, I knew that already. It
still felt good to have Skippy verify what I was seeing. "All right,
what's up?"

"This is a conversation perhaps best conducted in
private, Joe."

"Ah. Got it." I pinged the CIC crew, to let
them know I was going to my cabin. Once there, I closed the door behind me, and
sat down on the bed. The crew knew not to disturb me in my cabin, without
calling me first. "What is it?"

"Joe, I know this will not be a pleasant
conversation."

"Let me guess, you're going to tell me that I
need to consider abandoning Chang's team, in order to continue the
mission."

"Um, yes?" His voice carried genuine surprise.

"Sacrifice a few soldiers, to preserve most of
the crew, and the ship."

"Uh huh," he said slowly. "I'm kind of
at a loss for words here, Joe, I was prepared for a long argument, and now I
got nothing."

"Don't be an ass, Skippy. You think I haven't
considered that I may have to do that? Sit here silently, while the clock runs
out on their oxygen supply, and they choke to death? I have considered that,
I'm the commander. That means I have to put the mission first. It sucks, it
absolutely sucks, I hate it. I'm the commander, it's my job. You think about
this; we're out here for you, this is your mission, we're risking our lives for
you."

"Whoa. That's BS. You're putting all the burden
on me, and you're wrong. Yeah, I need you not to risk the ship. You humans need
to make sure other species do not discover that you are roaming around the
galaxy."

Damn, I had actually hurt his feelings. "That
came out kind of harsh, Skippy, I didn't mean it that way. You saved our
planet, and we have a deal, and I'm going to keep to that deal, even if it
costs lives. I want 
you
 to understand that."

"I do understand it, Joe."

"Good. I have thought about this a lot, Skippy.
If we don't have a realistic chance to recover the landing party without undue
risks to the ship, then I am simply going to face the facts. It's plain and
simple, Skippy, I can't afford to get emotional about command decisions. So,
yes, I have already decided we will abandon Chang's team, if we have to. Let's
hope it doesn't come to that."

"Joe, occasionally I am confronted with the fact
that you are not only the good-natured dope who I joke around with. I am
reminded that you shot down two Whales in cold blood, killing almost a thousand
sentient beings. And that under your command, we jumped fourteen Kristang
starships inside a planet, killing their entire crews. That doesn't include the
seventy eight Thuranin of their ship's original crew. Or the Kristang who died
when you nuked that asteroid."

"Your point is what?" Occasionally, I was
reminded that Skippy was an AI built by a civilization so far advanced, they
would consider humans to be bugs, at best. He acted friendly to us, and we
needed him to continue to be friendly. My most important job was not commanding
the ship, not leading the crew, not making critical decisions. The most
important thing I did aboard the 
Dutchman
 was making sure Skippy enjoyed
having us around. If Skippy ever got bored with insulting me and busting my
balls, we would be in trouble. Odd as it is to think about it, my relationship
with that arrogant little shithead was humanity's greatest asset.

"My point, I guess, is that I came into this
discussion assuming I needed to force you to consider an agonizing decision,
and you had already done that. I underestimated you."

"Thank you, Skippy."

"Of course, most of the time, when I think I'm
underestimating you, it turns out I estimated way too high, because you're such
a doofus."

"And, thanks for reminding me what an asshole you
really are."

"Oh, no problem, Joe, any time."

 

Around seven hours in, I was again in my office, doing
busywork that kept me from hovering around the bridge and distracting the duty
crew. Skippy interrupted my thoughts with more bad news. "Hmm, Joe, I just
learned a possibly interesting tidbit about this task force. The commander is
the third son of high-tier clan leader, he took command of the task force only
recently, and the fleet naturally gave him cast-offs from other task forces. As
such, he jumped his task force in here for training exercises, to whip his new
ships into shape. He is very concerned that his task force will be embarrassed
during a major clan-wide fleet wargame that is scheduled for next month. With
much of the next month taken up in travel time, this is his best opportunity
for training."

"Damn it," I cursed. "That means he's
going to push the time limit, stay here running exercises right to the
deadline." That's what I said, because that's what I would do, if I was
suddenly in command of a second-hand task force.

"My thoughts exactly. There are other Kristang
ships out at the edge of this star system, he took his task force here, so they
can train away from watching eyes. From what I have seen, the commander's fears
about the ships he was given are entirely justified; these ships are poorly
maintained, their crew are inexperienced, and morale is terrible. Thus far, the
ships maneuver clumsily, respond slowly to orders, and their navigators do not
seem to understand left from right. It does not help that this task force
commander is, even for a Kristang, a major hard-ass. It almost makes me feel
sympathetic for the crews under his command."

"Yeah," I said with a frown.
"Almost."

 

At the eighteen hour, thirty two minute mark, I was
once more in my office when Skippy called. Sleep, although a good idea, had
been elusive, I'd laid down on my bed and tried to get some rest for an hour,
until I gave up and realized there was no way I could peacefully slumber while
the landing party, while my people, were running out of oxygen. So, I'd gone to
my office to study flight training manuals.  "Joe! One of those cruisers
just jumped into low orbit of that moon, on the opposite side from the Elder
base. We didn't have any warning; it was suddenly there. Four dropships are
proceeding down to the surface."

I fairly jumped around the desk and into the corridor.
"Did you inform the bridge?"

"Yes, of course I did, Joe. Major Simms is the
current duty officer."

From my office to the bridge was less than twenty
seconds, that's why I'd selected a tiny closet as my office. Close enough so I
could get there quickly, far enough away and around a corner, so the bridge and
CIC crews didn't feel I was hovering over their shoulders every minute. When I
got there, Simms was already sliding out of the command chair for me. "All
we know is, a cruiser jumped in, with no warning, and launched four dropships
straight down. On their current course and speed, we estimate they will arrive
at the Elder base in twenty seven minutes."

Twenty seven minutes. Because the 
Dutchman

could jump there within seconds, we didn't need to act immediately. We could
evaluate the situation, and consider our options. I was about to order Captain
Desai to the bridge, I wanted our most experienced pilot at the controls if we
had to go into combat. Then I remembered Desai wasn't aboard the ship, she was
in a dropship, in stealth, on that moon. This situation was bad, all bad.
"Is there any sign that the Kristang know about the landing party?" I
asked the obvious question. Why else would that cruiser have jumped into orbit
there, and launched four dropships?

"No," Skippy answered, "there were no
such communications before that cruiser jumped, and the cruiser and its four
dropships are maintaining communications silence. It is, however, impossible
for us to assure that we can monitor every single transmission between those
ships. If they are using a tight-beam maser to communicate between ships, the 
Dutchman's

sensors have less than a fifty percent chance to intercept the message."

"I'm going to assume they know, somehow they
know, about the landing party. It's the only thing that makes sense. Our
options are, what? We jump in, launch missiles at that cruiser, and hit those
dropships with the maser cannon." I pondered the main display, playing
with the controls on the arm of the command chair; I'd gotten pretty good at
manipulating the display. From our position, we had line of sight to the moon,
the orbits of the moon and the 
Dutchman
 mean the moon was going behind
the planet within forty minutes. The cruiser was a dot on the display, it was
visible, but was headed behind the moon in less than five minutes. Because we
weren't using the 
Dutchman's
 sensor field, we had to rely on passive
sensors to detect the enemy ships. Most importantly, four dots on the display
were the Kristang dropships, I zoomed in the view, and it revealed two large
troop transports and two gunships. The dropships had pulled out of their steep
dive from orbit, and were flying low, hugging the airless terrain. An icon on
the display indicated that the ship's sensors were estimating the position of
the dropships. At such distance, and with our sensors dealing with interference
from the planet's magnetic field, detecting the dropships was intermittent.
"Or, hey, how close to the moon's surface can we jump in? We need to
shrink the distance Desai needs to get back aboard. Star carriers aren't
designed to operate in a gravity well, that moon's gravity can't be a problem,
right? Can we-" 

"Colonel Joe," Skippy interrupted me,
"we have another option that you should strongly consider; doing nothing
for now, and waiting. I don't think this is a real assault against the landing
party. If they knew humans are down there, their other ships would be deployed
to support the assault force. They are not at the moment; the other ships are
operating independently."

"You think this is an exercise also?" That
surprised me. It also didn't make much sense. The planet had a dozen moons,
having a Kristang cruiser jump into orbit of the one moon where we had a
landing party stranded was too much of a coincidence.

"Yes, I believe it is another exercise. Based on
limited data, yes," Skippy said confidently. "This appears to be one
Kristang ship practicing an assault drop."

"How sure are you about that, Skippy?" I
needed him to be very confident. If the Kristang dropships landed at the Elder
site and their soldiers went inside, it would not matter whether their original
purpose was an exercise or an assault, they were likely to find our landing
party. And then there would certainly be a fight for real.

"Fairly. Hmmm, perhaps that did not give the
impression I intended to convey. To be more accurate, there is a 92%
probability that this is an exercise, and that the Kristang do not know
anything about the presence of our landing party. I can show you, if you like,
how a Kristang task force would deploy to support and assault drop; this task
force is not positioned to assist that one cruiser. Also, those four dropships
have not engaged stealth, that is also unusual. The lack of stealth is a strong
indicator that this is not a true combat situation for the Kristang. If their
intention is to attack our landing party, the tactics of that task force are
truly incompetent."

"92% is good, Skippy, except it only tells me
part of what I need to know. If part of the exercise includes those dropships
landing at the Elder site, and Kristang soldiers going into the Elder site, we
will need to intervene."

"Oh," Skippy sounded disappointed.
"Hmm. I hadn't considered that. We could be forced into combat, even if
that is not currently the intention of the Kristang."

"Uh huh. Also, those other ships are several
light minutes away, our information on their positions and what they are doing
is out of date by that much," I pointed out. That was a problem with our
fancy displays; they made you unconsciously assume the data was all in
real-time and it wasn't. In space combat, almost everything had a time lag of
at least several seconds. When I was in Army basic training, we had to use old
fashioned paper maps, in addition to computer displays, tablets and GPS
equipment. Paper maps made you realize the whole time that a marker showing an
enemy's position, was only as good as how old that data was. We could use some
of that mindset out here now.

"True, and it is mildly impressive that a monkey
like you is capable of such thinking," Skippy said grudgingly. "Well,
then, in that case, I will concede that this may turn into a fight, if those
dropships arrive at the Elder base. Until such time, I believe our best course
of action is to wait, to determine what the Kristang are doing."

"Waiting won't limit our options?" I asked
with a frown. "That ship is going behind the moon, and our maser cannons
require line of sight to hit the dropships."

"Waiting will not substantially decrease our
chance of success at rescuing the landing party, Joe, because the odds are very
much not good for us. Our best chance to recover the landing party, I am trying
to tell you, is to wait and hope this is an exercise. There is little downside
to delaying action for up to another twenty, even twenty two minutes. If we are
forced to act, delaying will only decrease our chances of success by zero point
one seven percent. Overall, our chances of retrieving the landing party, in
combat against this Kristang task force, are, ahh, you hate math anyway, so I
won't quote numbers at you. The odds against us suck, Joe. The landing party is
simply too vulnerable down there, and this ship is not capable of providing
enough firepower to shield them."

"We wait?"

"Yes, that is my recommendation."

I slumped slightly in the chair. "Waiting is
something I'm not good at, Skippy."

"Joe, if I listed all the things you are not good
at, we would be here a very long time. I do agree that waiting is something you
particularly suck at. If you were a superhero, you would be No Patience Man.
You'd be the guy who thinks, if the instructions say to bake a cake at 300
degrees for thirty minutes, you can instead bake it at 1800 degrees for five
minutes."

"You can't?" I managed a hint of a smile at
that. 

"That would be a solid no, Joe. Remind me to keep
you away from the galley."

 

We waited. We waited, and we made plans, we hastily threw
together plans to attack the Kristang and recover the landing party. We waited
another five minutes, then ten. At the twelve minute mark, Skippy announced the
four dropships had split up into two groups of two, with a gunship and a troop
transport in each group. They had split up; their apparent courses were taking
them to approach the Elder base from two directions. "It now appears very
likely," Skippy said sadly, "that they intend to land and practice a
full combat assault on the Elder base. This is very unfortunate. I still
believe the Kristang do not know anything about our landing party, the Elder
base is merely a convenient place to practice an assault. As you said, that
hardly matters now."

"It doesn't matter. If we have to fight, I want
to do it when we choose, not wait for them to force our hand. I am not letting
those dropships get close enough to that Elder site to threaten our people down
there. Major Simms, get the ready bird warned up," we had two pilots in a
dropship, prepared to launch on a two-minute notice. "Skippy, show us our
best options again."

"As none of our options are good, not one of them
could be considered 'best', Joe. The option you liked best is- wait, I'm
intercepting a message from the cruiser. Yup, I was right, this is an exercise,
the captain of the cruiser is bragging about how well the exercise is going,
and he is requesting permission for the dropships to engage stealth for the
final approach to the Elder site. The task force commander apparently denied
use of stealth so far, because he didn't trust the dropship pilots not to crash
into each other if they can't see each other. It will take several minutes, of
course, to receive a reply from the task force."

"Let's use that time wisely, then, I don't want
those dropships to be stealthed when we have to target them. We're going with
Option Bravo," I ordered. "Pilot, orient the ship and bring us about,
accelerate to match speed with target. Major Simms, tell the ready bird to open
the bay doors and prepare to launch."

Option Bravo was the least bad of our bad options, in
my inexperienced opinion. We were going to accelerate the 
Dutchman
 out
of the planet's magnetic field, to match course and speed with the moon, and at
the last minute, turn the ship so it would be sticking straight up and down in
relation to the Elder base. Straight up and down, with the engines pointed
down, so that when we emerged from jump, the 
Dutchman
 would be falling
in the moon's gravity well rear-end first. Our plan was to launch the ready
bird as soon as we came out of the jump wormhole, and send a signal to Desai.
Hopefully, Desai would get our signal and climb up to rendezvous with the 
Dutchman
,
while our pilots tried to balance the massive, awkward ship on its tail.
According to Skippy, our star carrier didn't have enough thrust available to
maintain altitude, or it did have enough thrust, but we couldn't use it in a
gravity well without snapping the ship's long spine. So, the ship would be
falling, tail first, toward the surface of the moon, and Desai would need to
precisely match our speed and acceleration, and fly her dropship into a landing
bay. While she was flying up to us, we would be hitting the four Kristang
dropships with maser cannons, and the ready bird would be flying down to
hopefully recover Chang's landing party. There would not be enough time to
recover the ready bird before the 
Dutchman
 had to jump away, we could
only fall a certain distance before we had to jump, or crash. When we jumped,
the plan called for us to engage the Kristang cruiser with missiles, then jump
away again. The ready bird would need to recover Chang's landing party, fly
some distance away from the Elder site, engage stealth, and wait. Wait, for
possibly a long time, because even if we got lucky and knocked out that
cruiser, the rest of the Kristang task force and their friends now just outside
the star system, would be buzzing around the moon like angry hornets.

It was not a good plan. It was the only plan we could
think of in the short time available. It would have to do; I was not leaving
the landing party down there. It may sound heartless, but if we couldn't
recover the landing party from the Elder structure they'd taken shelter in, I
would have to order a missile strike on them, to hide the fact that humans were
out here.

"Whatever happens, Joe, this will be a first in
galactic history," Skippy announced. "No one has ever done this with
a star carrier."

"Something to look forward to, then."

"No one has done this, because this is
mind-bogglingly stupid!"

"Hey, Skippy?"

"Yeah?"

"Hold my beer, watch this."

"What? Hold your- damn it, whoever put a redneck
in command of a starship?"

"You did."

"Oh." He thought about that for a moment.
"Damn! I guess I did."

The time for joking around with Skippy was over.
Grimly, I took one last look at the main display, and ordered "Pilot,
initiate jump countdown. Major Simms, don't wait for a signal from me, your
team is weapons free. Take out those dropships quick, they'll go into stealth
mode if we miss with the first shot." There were four enemy dropships
racing low and fast barely above the moon's surface, and the 
Flying
 
Dutchman

had only two rear-facing maser cannons. We had to make every shot count.

"Aye, aye, sir," Simms acknowledged.

I saw the pilot press the button to initiate the
programmed jump, and she counted down, "Jump in ten, nine-"

In a few seconds, I was going to take a new, untested
crew, and a ship never designed to engage in direct combat, into desperate
combat. Everyone aboard the ship could die, and it would be my fault, entirely
my fault. My right hand was shaking so badly, that I put it in my lap and
squeezed it with my left hand, which was not much better. And I needed to pee,
again. Waiting for combat to begin, the anticipation of danger, was almost
worse than combat itself. Once the shooting starts, my mind attains clarity and
focus. Before the shooting starts, my mind raced over every horrible possibility
of things going sideways.

"-four, three-"

"Belay that!" Skippy shouted, and I saw on
the display that he'd cancelled the jump on his own. Also he'd cut power to the
engines, we were no longer accelerating.

"Skippy, what the hell-"

"Battlecruiser just jumped in, near the Elder
site! They are targeting the four dropships with low-power masers. This must be
another part of the exercise. Oh! Two destroyers just jumped in near the
cruiser on the far side of the moon, they are engaged in a mock battle. Joe,
trust me on this, those four dropships have been declared dead by the task
force commander, they have changed course and are climbing for orbit. They are
no longer proceeding toward the Elder site."

"Oh, thank God," I let out a long breath and
slumped in the chair. "Pilot, bring us back into the magnetic field,
gently, please, we don't want to be seen."

"Wow," Skippy grunted.

"What is it?" I asked fearfully. Right then,
I didn't think I could take any more bad news.

"Oh, nothing that affects us directly, Joe. Man,
the mock battle between that cruiser and those two destroyers is not going well
for either side, all three ships are shockingly clumsy. The task force
commander is pissed, he is bitching at them in the clear, not bothering to
encrypt the transmission. I think he wants the rest of the task force to hear,
to embarrass those three ship captains in front of their peers."

"Clumsy, huh? You, uh, think they're clumsy
enough that we could take them in a fight, if we had to?"

"Hahahahahaha!" Skippy laughed. "No
way, dude! Damn, when I say clumsy, I mean clumsy by the standards of a hateful
warrior species like the Kristang. Joe, the 
Dutchman
 is a big, long,
spindly monstrosity that would handle like a drunk pig even if I were flying
it, and our ship is flown by unskilled monkeys. No offense to your pilots, but
the Thuranin designed this ship to be controlled by cyborg implants. Using the
manuals controls on this backup bridge slows reaction time down by a factor of
like ten. Those three Thuranin ships would fly circles around us. Our weapons
targeting is way too slow for us to have any confidence of hitting a moving
target."

"Thank you for the vote of confidence in us
monkeys, Skippy," I said, putting as much sarcasm into my voice as I could
right then. My hands were still shaking. Although I no longer needed to pee
immediately. 

"What? That wasn't intended to be a vote of con-,
oh, I get it, you were being sarcastic. Ha, ha, very funny. Stupid
monkeys," he grumbled.

 

Beginning at the twenty three hour mark, I relieved
the duty officer, and took back the command chair. The twenty four hour mark
came and went, with no sign of the Kristang going anywhere. They were still
fully engaged in exercises, although they had now gone back to the basics of
ship handling, the task force commander was very unhappy with the lizards under
his command. None of the Kristang ships were anywhere near the moon with our
trapped landing party, and I was tempted to order Desai to try sneaking away.
Skippy strongly advised against it.

Shortly after the twenty five four mark, we took a
slight risk and shot a tight-beam burst message to Chang and Desai, assuring
them we were still there, that we would pick them up as soon as we could. 

Twenty five hours, thirty minutes came and went, and the
Kristang were still there.

Twenty six hours. The Kristang were still engaged in
ship handling exercises. Anxious, I pulled up the combat options again and
reviewed them. None of the options had a decent chance of success. I was
staring at the cold, hard fact of abandoning Chang's team, in order to preserve
the ship, and continue the mission.

Finally, Skippy spoke. ''Uh, oh, Joe, bad news. I'm
intercepting a ship to ship transmission, the task force commander is declaring
the exercise over, and ordering the task force to jump out to rendezvous with
the star carrier."

A glance at the display showed that it was twenty six
hours, twelve minutes since the Kristang had jumped in. "I don't get it,
Skippy, why is that bad news?" I asked, it sounded like good news to me.

"The bad news is that only four of the task force
ships will be departing, three will remain here. The commander is not happy
with the performance of two of the ships, the destroyers, he has ordered them
to remain behind with his battlecruiser, for remedial training. The full truth,
which I just learned, is that one of the destroyer captains is a younger
brother of the task force commander. As is typical with Kristang, the two
brothers absolutely hate each other. Why this matters to us is, the commander
intends to keep those destroyers here until he is satisfied with their
performance, even though that will mean they miss the original rendezvous with
the star carrier. The next star carrier to pass by this system will not arrive
for another seven days."

"Seven days?"

"Seven days," he repeated gravely.

"Two destroyers and a battlecruiser?"

"Yes. That battlecruiser is a formidable warship,
for the Kristang. It is a relatively new design, being less than thirty years
old, and contains weapons that could certainly threaten our ship."

"The landing party can't wait seven days," I
said, stating the obvious.

"Correct," Skippy said quietly. "I do
not currently have any useful solutions to the problem, Joe, I am sorry."

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER EIGHT

 

There were eighteen people in the landing party. Of
them, Desai and her copilot, Lt. Devereax, were aboard the dropship, and had
plenty of oxygen. Hopefully by now, the four people who had been exploring
outbuildings were back aboard the dropship also. That left the twelve people in
Chang's party, who were in armor suits, with a limited supply of oxygen. Twelve
people who could not wait seven days.

Twelve people trapped on the moon. Compared to fifty
two on the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
. Twelve people in certain peril,
against the lives of fifty two I would be risking, if I ordered our star
carrier to tangle with three Kristang warships. It was not as simple as
Thuranin technology versus Kristang; the Kristang had stolen and adapted
Thuranin technology over the years, and in terms of weapons and shields, the
ships were not far enough apart for my comfort. Also, the Kristang ships were
dedicated, true warships, designed for space combat, while our 
Dutchman

was basically a truck. Star carriers were not supposed to engage in direct
combat with other ships, they were supposed to use their superior jump
capability to run away, and let other ships handle the fighting for them.

Twelve lives, against fifty two. The math wasn't that
simple, because if the 
Dutchman
 were disabled or destroyed in combat, the
entire landing party would die, including Desai's people aboard the dropship.
Then it would be all seventy people dead.

The 
Dutchman
 could jump away safely, saving the
fifty two lives currently aboard, and continuing the mission. If at some point,
the Kristang ships were busily engaged in wargames, and far enough away from
the moon, it might be possible for Desai to bring the dropship up from the
surface, trusting the dropship's stealth field. We might be able to time her
climb from the surface, with a precise jump by the 
Dutchman
, for us to
pick up the dropship and be on our way before the Kristang could intercept us.
That would save an additional six lives.

Twelve, against fifty eight, then. In a military
sense, it was twelve people, against the continuation of the mission. If math
were the only question, my decision would be easy. Since I was a monkey, and
not a cyborg, raw numbers were not the only consideration.

The real question was whether we could destroy, or at
least disable, those three Kristang warships, long enough for us to retrieve
the landing party and escape? We needed a plan, and for that, we needed
information. We needed greater situational awareness.

"Skippy, where are those ships in relation to us,
distance, I mean. Can you show that on the display?”

Skippy sighed. "It is on the display, if you
weren't such a dumb monkey, you would see it. Fine, here, I added lines showing
the distance in lightseconds."

Yellow lines and numbers appeared on the display
screen. "See how easy that was, Skippy? This is great, thank you. The
battlecruiser is thirty seven lightseconds from us, and the two destroyers are
another sixty eight lightseconds beyond the battlecruiser."

"Correct! Do you want a prize for reading the
display, Joe?"

"Huh? No, uh, I'm thinking."

"Ha! I find that unlikely."

“Skippy, I'm trying to be serious here, the landing
party is running out of oxygen. Three ships, huh? Can you do the trick again
that you did when we got to Earth? Take over those three ships with the
nanovirus?” Skippy had learned, after we spilled blood and lost people
capturing our Kristang frigate the 
Heavenly
 
Morning
 
Flower

of
 
Glorious
 
Victory
, that the sneaky Thuranin had planted
a nanobot virus aboard most Kristang ships, the ships became infected when they
hitched a ride on a Thuranin star carrier. Better than a simple virus hidden in
computer code, the nanobots could quickly assemble and take physical control of
Kristang systems. Since the Kristang, long wary of their systems being
infiltrated by their Thuranin patrons, had designed their ship computers to
resist digital hacking, a physical takeover was the only option.

“No. I wish I could, Joe, the situation is not
favorable for me to repeat that particular action. Because you are going to ask
me a bunch of ignorant questions about why I can’t do it, I will save both of
us the time and explain now. You will hopefully remember me telling you that I
need to be relatively close to a Kristang ship to make that trick work?”

Although I did remember him telling me something about
the subject, I did not remember exactly what he said. “Something about
lightseconds?"

“Something like that, yes. The Thuranin developed the
nanovirus to protect their star carriers from attempted takeover by Kristang
ships that were being transported, it is a short range technology, not intended
for fleet actions. I can somewhat extend the range at which the nanovirus can
be activated and controlled, but not far enough to reach any of those three
ships from our current location.”

“Whoa, hey, wait a minute, I call BS on that. You took
over those two Kristang ships at Earth, and one of them was on the other side
of the planet.”

“Yes, duh, Earth is a small ball of dirt, and both of
those ships were in low orbit, well within my envelope of influence. Do I have
to remind you what an enormous distance a lightsecond is? Larger than you
apparently think.”

"All right, is there any chance our fancy stealth
technology will let us sneak close enough to that cruiser?"

"No."

I waited for him to say more, he didn't. "No?
Could you tell me a bit more?"

"Why? You don't understand anything about the
technologies involved."

"Skippy, don't be an ass. Fine, yes, I do not
understand the technologies-"

"It's not only you, Joe, don't feel bad about it,
none of you grubby monkeys have the slightest clue as to how any of this
high-tech stuff truly works. Before you stumble over an attempted snappy reply,
I have applied my incredible resources to war gaming how we could deal with
those three ships, and I do not see any reasonable possibility of success. We
can handle either the battlecruiser, or the pair of destroyers, not both.
Whichever target we do not engage first, will certainly jump away, to the outer
edge of the system, and bring back the full Kristang force. There are an
additional thirteen warships out there, waiting for a star carrier. Those
thirteen ships, even though they are Kristang ships of considerably lesser
technology, would make it impossible for us to retrieve the landing force. I am
sorry, Joe. There is simply no way to do this."

Major Simms spoke up from the CIC. "This may be a
stupid question, but, we are in a Thuranin vessel. Could we simply order the
Kristang to jump away, jump to the edge of the system?"

"That is not a stupid question," Skippy
answered, "Major Tammy, and Joe, you could learn from her how not to ask
stupid questions. Unfortunately, the answer is no, the Kristang are unlikely to
obey such an unusual order from the Thuranin, they would find it highly
suspicious. For a star carrier to enter the gravity well of a star system is
unusual enough, the Kristang would also find it highly unusual that our star
carrier has only one ship attached. What the Kristang would very likely do, by
very likely I mean I am one hundred percent certain, is make only a short jump,
to keep eyes on what the Thuranin are doing here. As soon as they saw Thuranin
activity near a moon which contains an Elder site, they would jump one ship
away to get reinforcements, and jump the other two ships in close enough to see
what we're doing. There is no trust between the Kristang and the
Thuranin."

"Crap," I said, "I'd like one thing out
here to be easy, for a change." No way I was giving up, either. I looked at
the display, pondering what to do. "Hey, those two destroyers look like
they're very close to each other, practically touching," I said, playing
with the controls and zooming in on the destroyers. "That's an illusion
created by the display, right? Ships don't actually travel that close to one
another?"

"Yes, and no. Ships do not normally travel so
close, with the tremendous speeds involved in space combat, a tiny navigation
error could quickly cause ships to collide. In this case, however, those two
destroyers truly are practically on top of each other, it is not something I am
manipulating to make the display easier for monkeys to understand. Those two
ships are preparing to practice a maneuver, in which one ship tucks itself
inside another ship's stealth field. One of the ships has to turn off its
stealth field, because unless two stealth fields are kept perfectly in tune,
they interfere with each other. Encasing two ships in one stealth field allows
two ships to appear on an enemy's detection systems as a single ship, at some
point the ships can separate and surprise the enemy by moving in different
directions. This maneuver is extremely difficult and dangerous, the task force
commander is making those ships practice the maneuver because he expects their captains
to fail, and, possibly, as a bonus, for the ships to be damaged. That would
cause the two captains to lose face, giving the commander a convenient excuse
to replace them with officers loyal to him."

"Remind me not to apply for a position in the Kristang
navy," I said distractedly, the kernel of an idea was forming in my head.
"How close are those two ships to each other?"

"Four hundred meters," Skippy stated.
"In space combat terms, they are practically on top of each other. It is
very risky."

"Huh. And whatever happens to the battlecruiser,
those destroyers won't know about it for sixty eight seconds, right, when the
light gets there?"

"You are a true genius, Joe, your name should be
Einstein."

"Uh huh," I ignored his taunt, "and how
long after we get close to a Kristang ship, until you can take control of it,
with this nanovirus thing?"

"Oh, fifteen or twenty seconds, for complete
control. The ship will be immobilized within seven seconds. Speed of light
isn't an issue there, the effect I create is instantaneous, for incredibly
magical reasons that monkey brains can't understand."

"Yeah, whatever. Once we emerge from a jump, we
have to wait a bit before we can jump again, right?"

"Oh, boy. I hate to do this, Joe, burst your
bubble like this. You are thinking we can jump in close to the battlecruiser, I
can activate the nanovirus to seize control of the battlecruiser, then before
the destroyers know what has happened, we jump again over to them, and I take
control of them also, right? Ha! Forget it. I told you, monkeys should not do
anything thinking, you're not good at it. And I also already told you, I have
run every possible variable through my ginormous brain, and there is no way for
us to take on all three of those ships, without at least one, likely two, or
them, getting away, and bringing back reinforcements. Four of the ships are
about to leave, but, remember, the Thuranin star carrier isn't arriving until
the thirty six hour mark, there are a lot of Kristang ships right at the edge
of this star system. They could cause us a world of hurt. Listen, UH!" He
shushed me as I opened my mouth to speak. "Let me finish talking, I talk,
you listen. Me smart, you monkey. Joe, your idea, and, damn, I hate to abuse
the word 'idea' by associating it with anything that comes out of your brain,
your idea won't work. After we emerge from a jump, we can't jump again for
almost eighty seconds."

"Uh, I call BS on that, Skippy," I said more
confidently this time. "When we were shadowing that Thuranin battlegroup,
so you could download data from them, you found out there may be a Maxohlx ship
in the area, and you jumped us away. Then we did another jump, right away.
Another jump, in, like a few seconds."

"At that time, we jumped again within twenty two
seconds, to be precise. Yes, Joe, we can manage a second jump in less than
eighty seconds. What we can't do is jump with any precision after waiting less
than eighty seconds. When I thought a Maxohlx ship might be stalking us, I
didn't care where we jumped to, as long as we jumped away. In this case, you
want us to quickly jump in very close to those two destroyers, and that is not
possible. A jump creates a vibration in the jump coils, an unpredictable
quantum fluctuation that affects spacetime immediately around the ship. In
order to program a precise jump, we have to wait for the vibration to settle
down. That means we will not be able to jump close to those destroyers, before
the gamma ray burst of our jumping in next to the battlecruiser reaches the
destroyers. As soon as those destroyers detect the gamma ray burst, they will
jump away, and we'll lose them. So, now that I have attempted to smack some
knowledge on a monkey, what do you say to that?"

"You done?"

"Yup."

"You sure? I don't want to spoil your fun,
Skippy, you sound like you're getting super enjoyment out of insulting us
monkeys."

"Yup, I'm sure. Please, Joe, please, dazzle me
with your genius idea. I haven't had a good laugh in a while."

"Good,” I said. “Because, if you had shut up and
listened to me for a second, you would have heard my idea already. Here it is:
we jump in near the battlecruiser, you take control of it, you make the
battlecruiser jump over right on top of those two destroyers, and set it to self-destruct,
like, blow its drive coils or something, as soon as it emerges from the jump.
That will at least disable those two destroyers temporarily, and we can then
jump in and finish them off with missiles, after our jump system is ready
again. The battlecruiser will have its jump coils charged for an emergency
jump, it won't have to wait eighty seconds. Will that work?"

Silence, then, Skippy said simply "Damn. 
Damn it
!"

After waiting a moment for him to say something more,
I lost patience. "Skippy? Hello? Listen, if you're taking your time thinking
up a list of insults because my idea is stupid, how about you just tell me now,
and we can set aside time later for you to bust my balls about it, Ok?"

"I hate my life. This sucks," he grumbled.
"This is 
so
 unfair!"

"What is unfair?"

"Joe, I do not know how this happened. I don't
know how this could be possible, given the laws of physics. Somehow, you came
up with a good idea. You. A monkey! Oh, I am so humiliated. I hate my life! I
crunched billions of variables and came up with nothing, no way to take out all
three of those ships, and a freakin' monkey says, 'duh, how about this idea',
off the top of its stupid freakin' monkey head." He sounded truly,
completely miserable. "Joe, if I had a nose, I could blow it, and what
comes out would be smarter than your entire species combined. Yet, somehow,
you, you of all beings, comes up with a good idea. Unbe-lie-vable!"

"Uh, huh," I said slowly. "So, Skippy,
uh, is this like when you had the genius idea for us to raid the asteroid, but
you forgot the fact that humans need space suits, in space?"

"Enjoy the moment, monkeyboy, it won't happen
again," he grumbled.

"Hmm, are you taking bets on that, Skippy?"

"Oh, shut up. I hate you. Stupid monkeys."

"I love you too, Skippy. Can you program a jump
for us, to get us close enough to that battlecruiser?"

"Yes, damn it, I'll program a jump so we can do
your stupid plan."

"Stupid? I thought you said my plan was not
stupid."

"It isn't," he said so quietly that I could
barely hear him. 

"What?" I said with a grin, looking through
the glass at people in the CIC. "I couldn't hear you, Skippy. This plan, a
plan from a monkey brain, is not stupid?"

"No."

"Hmmm. What is the opposite of stupid, I
wonder?"

"Smart! The opposite is smart! There, I said it,
you happy now? Damn, my life is already miserable enough. At times like this, I
am nostalgic about those years I spent buried in the dirt on Paradise. Ohhhh,
those days were so sweet. Peaceful, quiet, no screeching monkeys-"

"Just program the jump, Skippy, please."

 

Twenty six hours, twenty four minutes after the
Kristang task force jumped in, four of their ships jumped away, leaving behind
the battlecruiser and two destroyers. Somehow I was able to order us to wait
another agonizing twenty minutes, to be sure those four ships were safely a
long way away, before I ordered us into action. We jumped in close to the
battlecruiser, close enough to be comfortably within Skippy's effective range,
far enough not to trigger a panicky immediate jump away by the Kristang ship.
As soon as we emerged from the jump, Skippy transmitted a supposedly secret
Thuranin code, instructing the Kristang to hold position and maintain
communications silence. There was a Jeraptha cruiser in the area, Skippy told
the Kristang, pretending to be the Thuranin commander. "Damn it,"
Skippy grumbled in frustration, "they just queried me back, after I
ordered them very sternly to keep quiet."

"What's their weapons status?" I asked
anxiously. As part of the deception, we had our defensive shields down, leaving
us vulnerable to enemy fire. The lesser technology of the Kristang would not
matter much at such short range, their masers, particle beams and railguns
could close the gap fast and hurt the 
Dutchman
 badly. When Skippy
recommended we not raise shields, I had questioned that idea, until Skippy
convinced me that a shielded Thuranin ship, jumping in super close to the
Kristang, would very likely trigger an immediate jump away by the
battlecruiser. We needed the Kristang to hesitate just long enough for Skippy
to activate the nanovirus and seize control of the battlecruiser.

"They are spinning up missile guidance systems,
and they now have four maser batteries and one railgun locked onto us. The
railgun capacitors are charging up now. Man, there is zero trust between those
two species. I am trying a softer tactic, explaining the situation, rather than
issuing orders. Huh, well, that didn't work, a kinder, gentler Thuranin
apparently isn't believable. The Kristang commander is ordering a jump, and
signaling the two destroyers to follow him, but, three, two, one, too late,
suckers! Ha! I have complete control of that battlecruiser through the
nanovirus, Joe. Their jump drive is conveniently charged, reprogramming jump
coordinates now. Oh, man, there is panic aboard that ship, they are trying to
eject drones containing their flight logs, I'm blocking that. They are also
trying to launch missiles manually; I'm holding the missile launch tube outer
doors closed. Ready for jump."

I indulged in one last look at the battlecruiser on
the main display, in the dim, sullen light of the red dwarf star, the ship
looked evil; all hard angles, protruding weapons and sensor stations, with
nothing about the shape of the ship that wasn't purely functional. Kristang
ship designers seem to have gone out of their way to make their warships ugly.
"Do it, Skippy."

The battlecruiser disappeared from the display. The
problem with this plan was the same as the advantage of the plan; the two
destroyers were far enough away that the light from our jump in near the
battlecruiser, the signal from the Kristang task force commander and the
distinctive gamma ray burst of the battlecruiser jumping away, that light traveled
so comparatively slowly that the battlecruiser should have jumped in on top of
the destroyers before the light arrived there. According to the plan, the pair
of destroyers would only see the image of the battlecruiser, from light that
was sixty eight seconds out of date. They would see light that showed the
battlecruiser, all by itself, doing whatever it was doing, and the next thing
those destroyers saw would be the battlecruiser jumping in almost on top of
them, jumping in, the spatial distortion of the inbound jump point violently
rocking the destroyers, the roiling ripples of the inbound jump causing ripples
in spacetime that prevented the destroyers from jumping away to safety. And
then the battlecruiser's reactors, missile warheads and jump drive coils would
have exploded, ripping the battlecruiser apart and causing catastrophic damage
to the destroyers. By the time the gamma ray burst of our jump in reached the
destroyers, after sixty eight seconds, the destroyers should have been in no
condition to detect those gamma rays, or do anything about it.

According to the plan, that is. The problem with the
plan was that, after Skippy jumped the battlecruiser away, we wouldn't know
whether the plan had worked for another sixty eight seconds, when the light
from the destroyers' position reached us. One thing I had considered was for us
to jump near the destroyers, as soon as possible, to determine whether the plan
worked or not. After considering, what I decided was to stay right where we
were, and bite my nails for sixty eight seconds. If we had jumped to get a
quicker view, and things went wrong somehow, it would be another eighty seconds
before we could jump safely away again. That was too much risk for me. Maybe
Adams was right, maybe my inexperience at command made me more risk averse than
needed. I couldn't see the advantage of taking on more risk right then. And I
kept telling myself that, every second for sixty eight seconds.

The plan could have gone wrong. When Skippy jumped the
battlecruiser, he programmed it to jump to coordinates of where the pair of
destroyers should have been at the time, unfortunately, the information we had
about the destroyers' location was also sixty eight seconds old. Damn, space
combat is 
complicated
. While we were seizing control of the
battlecruiser, the destroyers could have moved unpredictably, and the
battlecruiser could have jumped into empty space. I made the rookie mistake of
expressing that fear out loud, at the forty five second mark.

"I don't think that happened, Joe," Skippy
assured me, "the task force commander was very strict, he ordered those
destroyers to hold position, tucked inside one stealth field, until he ordered
them to maneuver. Which he hadn't yet done, at the time we jumped in and took
control of his ship. The last transponder signal from the destroyers shows they
were exactly where they were supposed to be at the time. I have high
confidence. Between your unsubstantiated fears, and my rigorous statistical
analysis, I'll take my numbers every time."

While Skippy was talking, I momentarily took my eyes
away from the countdown timer on the display. "That's great, Skip-"

"And sixty eight seconds, mark!" Skippy
shouted excitedly. "Detecting a gamma ray burst, exactly where it is
supposed to be, and way more accurate a jump than the stupid lizards could have
done on their own, also, yes, detecting a reactor, missiles and jump drive
coils exploding. The battlecruiser is gone. And, yes! Detecting secondary
explosions! Give me a minute, there is a whole lot of noise in the sensor data.
Hmmm, yes, yes. Successful, hundred percent. Both destroyers disabled. The
battlecruiser jumped in slightly ahead of them, that is the best I could do
with the inert lump of rock the Kristang use for a jump drive, the explosion
caused severe damage to the forward section of both destroyer hulls."

"Excellent!" I breathed a sigh of relief.
"Is it safe for us to jump in?"

"Best we wait another seventy nine seconds, for
the debris cloud to clear the area, otherwise we might get whacked by something
moving at high speed. Those destroyers are not going anywhere, Joe, don't worry
about that."

"Got it. Program a jump for us, please, Skippy.
Pilot," I addressed Chen in the lefthand seat, "engage jump in
seventy nine seconds."

"Joe," Skippy said, "I have to admit,
this was a clever and inventive plan. In my research, I was unable to see any
way we could take out all three ships. Now I know the factor that I was missing
from my calculations; it did not occur to me to use one enemy ship, as a weapon
against the other enemy ships. That was clever. Especially for, you know, a
monkey."

I couldn't help chuckling. "Skippy, I assume you
meant that as a compliment somehow, and since you suck at giving compliments, I
will say thank you. We monkeys don't have big claws or sharp teeth, and we
can't fly and we're not particularly big or strong. We rely on being
clever."

"Hmmm. Don't get used to it, Joe, you are, after
all, only monkeys. This is a hostile galaxy, every spacefaring species out
there has genetically or cybernetically enhanced intelligence, or both."

"Like the Thuranin, you mean?"

"Exactly."

"Yeah," I said, tapping the arm of the
command chair. It was the only chair aboard the star carrier that fit humans
without adjustment, the Thuranin commanders must have liked the feeling of
sitting in an extra-large chair. "Yet, here we monkeys are, in one of
their ships. What do you think of that, Sergeant Adams?"

"Monkeys kick ass, sir, " she grinned, and
gave me an enthusiastic thumbs up. "Damn straight."

"Crap," Skippy grumbled. "Now you
monkeys have gotten way too high an opinion of yourselves. I shouldn't have
said anything."

 

We jumped over to the two stricken destroyers. They
were both tumbling end over end, completely out of control. Skippy reported
there were survivors aboard both ships, survivors busy trying to stay alive,
and no threat to us.

"Sir?" Adams asked from the CIC, "Shall
we launch missiles?" I could see her finger expectantly poised over a
button.

"Those ships are still somewhat functional,
Skippy"? I asked, my jaw clenched. "Can they manage a short
jump?"

"Not on their own, no, or they would have jumped
away by now. However, I am now activating the nanovirus to take direct control
of their jump drive system, both ships can manage one short jump.  In their
current condition, I must caution you, that will be their last jump, their jump
drive coils are badly out of alignment."

"Do it. I want to jump those ships into the upper
atmosphere of that planet. Deep enough that they can't climb out of the gravity
well, high enough that the ships won't be crushed right away by the pressure.
You can do that?"

"Yes, certainly, the nanovirus is taking
effect," he said slowly, "can I ask why you don't simply hit them
with a pair of missiles?"

"You can always ask, Skippy. Two reasons, first,
we have a limited supply of missiles, and I don't want to expend ammo if we
don't need to."

"That makes sense, sure. The second reason, which
I suspect is more important?"

"The second reason, Skippy, is that I've been to
Earth recently. I saw what those lizards did to my home planet, saw what they
tried to do to my planet and my entire species. It's really simple, Skippy; I'm
pissed, and I want the Kristang to experience the fear that humans felt. Some
of the Kristang, at least. Most of the Kristang on Earth, you killed before
they realized what was happening. The ones that survived the initial strike,
huddled in their holes until you hit them with a hypersonic railgun. Again,
they were alive one moment, and dead the next. When you jump these ships into the
upper atmosphere, their crews will have a minute to realize what is happening,
as their ships plummet down towards the planet's core, and are crushed by the
increasing pressure. Think of this, Skippy, as my way of giving a middle finger
salute to the Kristang, on behalf of all the people on Earth."

"Oh. Ready now."

"Jump those ships into hell, Skippy."

"Done. Enhanced image in main display."

On the display, the two destroyers flared into
existence within the gas giant planet's upper atmosphere. Immediately, their
hulls began glowing hot pink as they fell rapidly down, down, down toward the
planet's core. Pieces began breaking off the ships, the larger pieces tumbling
and spinning away. Quickly, we lost sight of the ships, even in the enhanced
image, as they were swallowed up the poisonous atmosphere. I held up my right
hand and, flipped the bird to the image on the display. "Adios, MFers,"
I said quietly.

"Joe," Skippy said, "you surprised me.
That was spiteful of you."

"Skippy, you know me as the doofus who jokes
around with you. I am that, you need to understand that is only part of who I
am. Right now, first, I am a soldier, I'm going to defend my ship, my crew and
my species, above all else. Including getting a small measure of revenge once
in a while."

"Got it. Especially since you acknowledged that
you are a doofus."

That remark managed to draw a smile from my lips, as I
watched the last pieces of the two destroyers disappear into the roiling
clouds. "I wouldn't have it any other way. People, let's retrieve our
landing party, before some other group of assholes show up here and spoil the
party. Major Simms, signal Captain Desai to proceed to the main site, and for
Colonel Chang to get his team moving toward the evac site. They can drop
communications silence; I want a status report ASAP." Their heavily
encrypted transmissions would not reveal the presence of humans in the star
system. "Skippy, program a jump to take us over to that moon,
please."

 

Desai responded almost immediately after we jumped in
near the moon again. "
Dutchman
, we are off the ground, ETA at the
main site is four minutes," she said, which meant she was really pushing
the dropship's speed, we could hear the strain in her voice. "What
happened up there?"

"A Kristang task force jumped in uninvited,
apparently the planet is a popular refueling station, they must have the only
clean bathrooms in this part of the galaxy."

"I find that hard to believe, sir," Desai
laughed.

"That the planet is a gas station?" I asked,
confused.

"No, that any gas station has clean
bathrooms."

"Oh!" She made me laugh. Damn, she had been
trapped on the moon's surface, out of communication, worried sick about the
people stuck in their slowly-suffocating space suits, and still she had the
good spirits to make me laugh. "You are probably right about that,
Captain," I replied. "There were seven Kristang ships in the task
force, four of them jumped away, to hitch a ride on a Thuranin star
carrier."

"And the rest?"

"Scratch two destroyers and one
battlecruiser."

"Roger that, 
Dutchman
, I'd love to hear
the details later. Any damage to my ship?" She understandably had referred
to the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
 as 'her' ship. I didn't mind at all, she
had been flying the darned thing, I had only been giving orders.

"No damage, we didn't even fire a shot."

"Wow. Now I 
have
 to hear about this."

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER NINE

 

Lt. Colonel Chang had been even more happy to hear
from us, and especially from Desai. She landed the big dropship as close as
possible to the entrance to the underground building where Chang and his team
had spent over a day hiding, waiting, waiting for rescue or for their oxygen to
run out. As soon as the dropship was secured in the landing bay, I ordered a
long jump, to get us far away from that star system. As a courtesy, I waited
for Chang to get out of his no doubt stinking space suit, take a shower, drink
a half gallon of water and grab a simple lunch before he gave me a briefing.
"We're all fine now, Colonel," he reported while eating the last
spoonful of soup, "those soldiers are all admirably disciplined. When we
got your signal, I ordered them to lay down, rest and conserve oxygen, and
that's what they did. No complaining, no talking. Mostly, we tried to sleep a
lot, we kept one person awake at all times to listen for your signal. Other
than watching our oxygen gauges move toward zero, and wondering what was going
on upstairs, it was boring more than anything else."

"Your people were down in an access shaft?"
I asked.

"Yes, we found an area of the site that appeared
to not have been looted, there was no sign anyone had ever been there for a
very long time, thick dust on the floor, no footprints. The entrance to the
area was hidden, we found it by luck. It led to an access shaft, I sent four
people down it, they got to the bottom and there was a corridor." He
finished the last of the soup and pushed the bowl aside. "It was a dead
end, appears to be maintenance access for the life support system. We didn't
find anything useful down there."

"It was worth a shot, good call," I assured
him, "you had no way to know we were about to have uninvited guests."

Chang nodded slowly. "In the future, we need to
bring some sort of portable shelter that has oxygen, so we don't rely only on
the suits."

"Agreed, we don't have anything like that aboard,
we'll need to see if we can rig something up. We also, in the future, need to
keep the landing party in one place, with a dropship nearby. If we're going to
split up a landing party, we need multiple dropships," I concluded. That
was a mild criticism, a lesson learned. There were a whole lot of lessons to be
learned out here, for all of us.

Including Skippy. After talking to Chang, and seeing
that the eleven others were doing well and eager to continue the mission, I
went to my cubbyhole of an office, to get started on writing up an after-action
report while it was fresh in my mind. "That was a waste of time,"
Skippy said bitterly, just as I sat down in my uncomfortable chair. "All
that way, only to find an Elder site that has already been looted."

"It was not a waste of time, we already discussed
this," I reminded him. "We proved your method of predicting unknown
Elder sites is correct."

"Yeah, except this one wasn't unknown, it was
located at a freakin' highway rest stop. There should have been a big glowing
sign, like 'Big Mike's Truck Stop, low prices, great food, don't miss our Elder
site attraction, get a free T-shirt'."

"Yeah, about that. Why wasn't that moon on your
list of confirmed Elder sites, since everybody else in the whole galaxy knows
about it?"

"Oh, uh, hmm. Maybe it was on my map, in
retrospect. That may have been a teensy weensy screw up, on my part. Nothing
worth mentioning."

"Nothing worth mentioning, you say? Skippy, you
sent us into a star system that is a super highway of interstellar traffic. The
only way that place could have more traffic, is if that Elder site was giving
away free beer, or whatever the Kristang drink. And you told us the place was
deserted, it has an unimpressive star, and no habitable planet. We almost had a
landing party suffocate, because of your teensy weensy screw up. Please,
indulge me, mention it."

"Oh, yeah, sure, blame me," he said
defensively, "I had to process exabytes of pirated data to create my map,
so excuse me if the final result needed some fine tuning. Now that I have that
system as a data point, I know that Elder site was indeed on the map, it was
mentioned in a side note. My assumption was that an Elder site would be
featured prominently in any data about a star system, and that is true about
all the other sites I was looking at. This particular site is a side note,
precisely because it is so well known. Now that I know how such places are
tagged in databases, I have identified six other similar sites, none of which
are on our target list. More importantly, I have confirmed that the other,
unknown, potential Elder sites on our list truly are not known to other
spacefaring species."

"Unless an Elder site is known, and isn't in any
database you have access to, because the species that knows about it wants to
keep it secret."

"That is always a possibility, Joe," he said
glumly, "nothing I can do about that. You're right, it was not a waste of
time, it was, however, very disappointing. Now I have to wait, again, while we
travel through empty space."

I tried to cheer him up. "Hey, you have been
waiting a long time, what's another couple days?"

"The next target is ten days from here. That's
more than a couple days, Joe."

"Less than two weeks!" I tried to be cheery
about it.

"Two weeks in a barrel of monkeys," he said,
"somebody, please, shoot me."

 

Skippy was wrong, there was something we could do to
avoid jumping into star systems that had, permanently or frequently, an alien
presence. From now on, I determined, the 
Flower
 would be jumping in
first, to recon the place, before we jumped the 
Dutchman
 in and launched
a landing party. According to Skippy, sending our captured Kristang frigate in
was a waste of effort, that ship's sensors were so pitifully inadequate that it
could barely find a planet. I disagreed, and figured he was exaggerating. When
we were near the second target, we held the 
Dutchman
 at the edge of the
star system, and Colonel Chang took the 
Flower
 in. He was gone a total
of twelve hours, twelve hours that were nerve-wracking hours for me. The 
Flower

jumped back exactly on time, and Chang excitedly reported what they had found,
Or, rather, what they had not found.

In terms of finding Skippy's magical radio, the second
of Skippy’s potential Elder sites was another disappointment. In terms of
sparking the interest of Skippy and our science team, of the entire merry band
of pirates, it was a big score. A home run. A touchdown. Or in soccer it would
be a Goooooooal! The star, if you could call it that, was another dim red
dwarf, a type of star I was getting jaded about already. There was no sign this
star system had ever been visited by an intelligent species, other than the
Elders. The place was so boring and ordinary, there was no reason for anyone to
be here, unless they thought they'd find an Elder site, like we had. We found
an Elder site, on a small airless moon orbiting a gas giant, right where Skippy
thought it would be. From what we could tell, no one had found this site before
us, no one had stripped it of valuables. The site had lain untouched for
millions of years.

What was left of the site, anyway. What Skippy found
intriguing, mostly because he didn't understand it, was that the center of the
site had disappeared, been scooped out millions of years ago. Scooped out
surgically. Where the center of the site used to be, where all the important
Elder facilities were, was an almost perfect half circle, gouged out of the
moon. Over the eons, the edges of the circle had crumbled somewhat, and the
bowl had small craters scarring its bottom from later meteor impacts. Even to
my unscientific eyes, something strange had happened here.

Skippy took an unusually long time processing the
sensor data. "We should go down there anyway, I want to get samples,"
he finally said, after what for him must have been a lifetime of analysis.
"There may be something useful in the outbuildings, I doubt it, but since
we're here, we should check it out. Joe, I do not understand what happened
here. Or, I do understand what happened here, I don't understand 
why
.
This is Elder technology, they created a spherical field, that moved everything
inside that field into another spacetime. This is somewhat advanced technology,
very energy-intensive, even for the Elders. Why they would have done this, to
one of their own facilities, I have no idea. We need answers. 
I
 need
answers."

This time, I went down to the moon in the dropship,
and Chang remained aboard the 
Dutchman
. With me were the French team,
they had missed out, if you could call it that, on landing at the first Elder site.
Giraud got the honor of first boot on the ground. I was right behind him,
walking gingerly in the one-ninth gravity of the small moon, taking care with
every step not to launch myself a hundred feet off the surface. Between the low
gravity, and the boosted power of the armor suit, that would have been all too
easy to do. The suits had settings for low gravity, preventing an unwary,
foolish, inexperienced or merely stupid wearer from doing anything that might
be fatal, those settings could be overridden in combat. Like all the other
soldiers, I was eager to test a suit in simulated combat, especially in low
gravity.

We poked around the site for a couple hours, looking
into mostly empty structures, and didn't find anything useful. Naturally, I
couldn't resist going right up to the edge of the perfect half sphere that had
been scooped out of the moon. The lip of the sphere had crumbled somewhat over
the eons, although in some places, where the sphere had cut through hard rock,
the edge was still well defined. Standing there, listening to the gentle
hissing of air in my stolen alien spacesuit, looking up at the vastness of
star-spangled pitch black space above, then down at the chilling mystery of the
half-sphere of moon that had been sent into another spacetime, I felt small.
Small, insignificant, utterly unimportant to the cold universe. I felt, more
than ever, that humans had no place out here, among the stars, so far from
home. All our problems, our hopes, our dreams, our fears of being conquered,
enslaved or wiped out by a technologically superior species, none of that meant
anything to the ancient, unfeeling universe. With a shudder, I stepped back
from the lip of the sphere, and turned to walk back to the dropship.

And I smiled. To my right, a group of French
paratroopers were standing at the lip of the sphere, getting their pictures
taken. After one or two serious poses appropriate for the significance of the
site, they were showing off for the camera; doing handstands, forming a pyramid
with one soldier on the shoulders of two others.

Screw the universe. The universe didn't care about us
monkeys, it didn't need to. We could manage fine on our own, and even have a
bit of fun doing it. We were going to be all right, if we had each other.

 Relenting to pressure from the science team, who had
mostly been stuck on the ship, I let a half dozen of them go down to the
surface, accompanied by Indian paratroopers. When the scientists concluded with
bitter disappointment, after several hours, that there was nothing of value or
even interest at the site, they came back to the 
Dutchman
. I ordered
course set for the next target, and we jumped away.

 

The next day, I made the mistake of saying 'hello' to
people as I came into the gym. All I wanted to do was run on the treadmill to
warm up, before running down the ship's long spine. One of our SEALs took my
greeting as an invitation to talk, and he hopped on the adjacent treadmill for
what I quickly learned was an uncomfortable conversation.

Cutting short my warm-up, I wiped my face with a
towel. "I will talk to Skippy about it," I assured him.

"I appreciate it, sir," he said, and sped up
his treadmill as I walked out the door.

I ran a series of hard sprints, and thought about how
to raise the subject while I cooled down on the walk back to the front of the
ship. "Hey, Skippy," I called out to him once I was alone in my
cabin.

"Hay is for horses."

"Very funny. I have a request. Some of the crew
are not happy about you calling us monkeys, they, uh, it's hard to explain.
It's a religious thing, they don't like the idea of humans evolving from
monkeys."

"Oh, sure, no problemo, Joe."

Wow. His simple reply surprised me, I had expected a
big argument from him. "Great, thank you, Skippy," I said with great
relief. Damn, I wish everything was that easy.

"We'll cross that bridge when we come to
it," he said simply.

"What?"

"I didn't use that expression correctly?"

"Uh, depends what you meant," I said
carefully. "That expression means you won't have to worry about, whatever
it is, until it happens," I explained. "People are already unhappy,
so we've crossed that bridge. You see?"

"Oh. I meant that I'll worry about it when you
evolve beyond monkeys."

"What?"

"From my viewpoint, monkeys and humans are
identical, so if any evolution went on, I ain't seeing it. You generally don't
fling your poop at each other like monkeys do-"

"A point in our favor."

"Monkeys don't shoot each other. Advantage,
monkeys."

"Crap. All right, can you do me a favor, and stop
calling us monkeys anyway?"

"But monkey is such a funny word, Joe."

"Granted-"

"Monkey monkey monkey monkey monkey monkey monkey
monkey monkey monkey monkey monkey monkey monkey-"

"Stop it!"

"I can create a subroutine to say 'monkey' until
the end of time, if you like. Monkey monkey monkey-"

"Shut up already!"

"We're done talking, then?"

"That would be great, yeah." I should have
known better. "We should do this less often."

"You brought it up."

"As you say, I am a dumb monkey."

"I'll remind you of that, the next time you ask
me for something stupid. That shouldn't take long."

 

Rather than being alone in my office, I took my iPad
to the galley for a cup of coffee. For me, not for the iPad. Desai was there,
looking at something on her own tablet, she gestured me to sit with her. This
was the first time we'd had some one on one time since, since I couldn't
remember. Maybe ever. "Colonel, sit down, please."

"Captain, how are your trainees doing?"

She took a sip of tea before answering. "As well
as can realistically be expected. Skippy is a tough instructor, he has no
patience and his social skills are nonexistent."

"What? I am 
shocked
." I grinned.

"Right," she smiled. "It was bad
before, when the trainees were only learning the absolute basics of flying the
ships in peacetime. Now we're into what Skippy calls Space Combat Maneuvers,
and that is all new to me also. It's blowing my mind. I hate to say this, sir,
but I may already be too old to learn flying all over again."

"Space Combat Maneuvers?" I had no idea what
she was talking about.

She nodded. "On Earth, pilots go to air combat
school for BFM, Basic Fighter Maneuvers, that teaches you how to turn, to
climb, mostly how to manage energy in combat flying."

"Manage energy?" I asked, baffled. "You
mean fuel?"

"No," she laughed. "For fighter
aircraft, energy means airspeed, and the ability to gain airspeed. For
instance, some fighters are fast in a straight line, but if they make a tight
turn, they bleed off a lot of kinetic energy and slow down too much, and it
takes a long time for them to regain airspeed. While they're slow, they're
vulnerable. Vulnerable in air combat means dead." I'm sure she was dumbing
down her explanation by a factor of ten for me. Maybe more. "SCM, Space
Combat Maneuvers, is completely different. There's no aerodynamics to take into
account. It's about moving the ship to avoid being where the enemy thinks you
are, so when they target you and fire a maser or particle beam at you, by the
time the beam arrives, you're not there."

"A maser beam, that moves at the speed of
light-"

"Close enough," she said.

"And you're supposed to move the ship before a
beam moving at the speed of light hits us?" This was blowing my mind also.
"Isn't that like dodging a bullet?"

"Sort of. At the distances where most space
combat happens, it takes several seconds, or even minutes, for a beam bolt to
travel to the enemy ship. When an enemy ship shoots at us, we can't even simply
fire back down the inbound beam path, because while the bolt is traveling, the
enemy ship has also moved."

"Damn, this is complicated."

Desai nodded. "So far, we've been concentrating
only on the basics of flying the ship. Going into combat is an order of
magnitude more complex. I'm supposed to be training the other pilots, and I
still don't grasp some of the concepts. This is going to be a very difficult
month."

 

When I got back to my office, I put aside routine
reports for something much more important. "Skippy, teach me about Space
Combat Maneuvers."

"What? Space Combat Maneuvers? Oh, sure, but,
hey, let's start with something easier, like monkey-level theoretical physics.
How about this? The Casimir effect hypothetically allows the negative energy
density to support an Einstein-Rosen bridge, also called a wormhole-"

"Skippy, I'm serious. There is no way my tiny brain
can grasp everything our pilots need to know-"

"Man, you're making this too easy to
insult-"

"-but as commander of the ship, I need to know
the principles of SCM. The strategic level, not the advanced tactical
understanding our pilots need. I need, and any command duty officer needs,
enough situational awareness to make decisions. What do I need to know?"

"Wow. Yeah, great, thanks, is that all you
want?"

"Start small, and work your way up, all right?
How about this? How can one ship ever hit another ship? Even speed of light
weapons are too slow, ships move out of the way while a particle beam is
traveling. You told me about how ships use sensors fields to detect and target
other ships. What I don't get is, can't ships can just jump away whenever they're
in danger?"

"Oh, boy, this is not going to be easy. I'll
begin at the potty training level, and we'll work our way up to Barney style,
if your brain hasn't exploded by then."

"Fair enough."

And that's what he did. Man, I had a lot of
dangerously bogus assumptions, that Skippy straightened out for me. 

First, I had been assuming that when a ship jumped
away from a battle, it was safely out of the fight, there was no way for an
enemy ship to follow it. No way for the enemy to know where the ship had jumped
to. Sure, if a ship microjumped only a few light minutes away, then shortly the
enemy ship would detect the gamma ray burst from the other end of the jump,
because those gamma rays traveled at the speed of light. Otherwise, if a ship
jumped a light hour or more away, it was effectively gone, safely away. Man,
was I wrong about that.

Skippy explained, the way jumps works is, a ship opens
a temporary wormhole at the place it wants to jump to, the far end of the
wormhole opens first, and then the wormhole projects itself back to where the
ship is, and pulls the ship through. The reason ships come out the far end of a
wormhole a fraction of a picosecond 
before
 they enter the wormhole, is
because of the tiny time lag between when the far end of the wormhole is created,
and when the near end reaches back to the ship. Got that? If you don't, don't
feel bad, it took me a couple times for it to sink in.

Opening a wormhole that is big enough to squeeze a
ship through, is something the universe in our spacetime doesn't like, and even
after the ship goes through and the wormhole shuts down, it doesn't completely
close behind the ship right away. Ripples bounce from one end to the other,
from the violence of spacetime being ripped apart and being slammed closed
again. Enemy ships can tell, from these spacetime ripples emanating from the
near end of the wormhole remnant, where the far end of the wormhole is. The
ripples fade rapidly, so an enemy ships needs to act quickly, in order to
pursue a ship that jumps away. And Skippy said there are ways to fool pursuing
ships, by altering the resonance of the ripples, this technique is only
minimally effective, because pursuing ships have ways to eliminate the noise
and analyze the original ripples. Measures and countermeasures.

So, jumping away provides only temporary safety for a
ship. A ship has to hope its jump engine capacitors have a larger charge than
pursuing ships; if a ship only has enough charge for a microjump, it will soon
have enemy ships on top of it, with no way to get away. In that case, a ship
has to fight in normal space while its jump engines recharge. Of course, a
higher-tech species ship can almost always jump beyond the range of lower-tech
ships, even though a Kristang ship may be able to tell where a Thuranin ship
jumped to, it would take the Kristang ship multiple jumps to get there. By that
time, the Thuranin ship would have recharged, jumped far away, and the wormhole
collapse ripples would have faded so much, the Kristang couldn't follow.

All the talk about jumping away assumes a ship is able
to jump away, because enemy ships can project a damping field that envelops a
ship trying to jump away, and prevents a wormhole from forming correctly. If a
ship caught in a damping field tries to jump, it could rupture its jump drive
coils, even tear itself apart. 

In normal long-distance space combat, ships rely on
two types of weapons; missiles, and directed-energy weapons like particle
beams. Railguns, while they sound impressive, are too slow for most space
combat, except when ships are near the gravity well of a planet and have
limited space for maneuvering. Missiles carry greater destructive power, a
single direct hit by a missile could take a ship out of combat. Warships are
protected by defense energy shields that can diffuse directed-energy beams and
block missiles. The problem with missiles is that, even though missiles are
stealthed, they are easily detected by a ship's sensor field, and then the
ship's defensive directed-energy systems can destroy the incoming missile. In
actual combat, an attacking ship uses its energy beams to degrade an enemy
ship's shields and confuse its sensors, to provide a weak spot for missiles to
sneak through.

The whole thing made my head hurt, and it gave me a
different perspective on what a ship commander needed to think about in action.
I asked Skippy to set up a dumbed-down Space Combat Maneuver training for
anyone who sat in the command chair, including simulations.

"How do pilots remember all this stuff?" I
asked. Not only remember, they had to understand the concepts, internalize it
until it became instinct.

"They're smarter than you, to put it bluntly. The
pilots aboard this ship are among the elite of your species."

I frowned. "And I'm a grunt who got lucky."
What the hell was I doing, in command of pilots and special forces soldiers who
were clearly, in every way, better than me?

"You have your own talents, Joe, I've told you
that. You went from being a sergeant, to prisoner of the Ruhar, to shutting
down a wormhole and freeing your home planet from the Kristang. How many of our
elite new crew can say that? 'What ifs' are fine when you're talking over a few
beers, but you can't argue with success."

"Thank you, Skippy."

"You're welcome. Now, if you'll excuse me, I need
to find a fork."

Not sure I had heard him correctly, I asked "A
fork? Why do you need a fork?"

"Ugh, dumbing myself down enough to explain
things to you, contaminated my substrate beyond repair. I'm hoping if I stab my
processing nodes enough times with a fork, I can kill the part where those
memories are stored. Yuck."

 

Hearing a tiny bit about Space Combat Maneuvers from
Skippy, got me interested enough that I asked Desai to forward the full SCM
training package to me. Reading the first section made my head hurt, and made
me realize that before I could think about maneuvering the ship in combat, I
needed to understand how ships operated.

I approached our chief pilot again in the galley,
while she was sipping tea and reading something on her iPad in her off duty time.
That morning, I'd seen Desai running on a treadmill in the gym and decided not
to bother her then, she'd been listening to music. By unspoken agreement, time
in the gym was private time, unless people wanted to be social.

"Good afternoon, Captain," I said, pouring
myself a half cup of coffee. In the kitchen, two French paratroopers were
working on baking something for dinner, they nodded to me briefly, then went
back to kneading dough. Something they had baking in the oven smelled
delicious. The idea of splitting cooking duties between national teams rather
that bringing professional cooks aboard, had been partly my idea; I'd been
trying to reduce the number of people we put at risk on the mission, and UNEF
had wanted to maximize our combat power. It had been an experiment; would
pilots, scientists and SpecOps soldiers resent taking time off from training to
cook and clean? To my great relief, the answer was a resounding no. First, the
hotshot pilots and SpecOps troops were all super competitive, no team wanted to
let their nation down by serving food that was anything but the absolute best.
And second, the teams treated their assigned day in the galley as a mentally
challenging, fun day off from the grind of training. Having a full day off
meant the SpecOps teams could train even harder, on days when they weren't
working in the galley. Doing something challenging and unfamiliar together, was
great for team bonding. Depending on how long our mission lasted, I considered
eventually breaking up national teams, and scattering people into multinational
teams. Eventually. If we survived that long.

"Afternoon, Colonel," Desai gestured for me
to sit down at her table. 

"How is flight training going?"

Training other pilots took up most of her time, and it
didn't help that I insisted she be at the controls whenever we jumped into a
new star system. In the star system where Skippy was sure we'd find an Elder
site but came up empty, we'd had nine days of making short jumps, and
maneuvering the 
Dutchman
 in normal space to establish orbit around
various planets, and to explore the system's extensive asteroid field. At
Desai's insistence, since we felt that isolated star system was safe from us
being discovered, we took the opportunity for pilots to practice flying the 
Flower

and dropships. The 
Flower
 spent several days away from its mother ship,
jumping on its own, trying to hit specific targets on each short jump, dropping
down into low orbit around planets, climbing out to jump distance, practicing
space combat maneuvers. Dropships practiced landing on moons and asteroids,
flying between the 
Dutchman
 and the 
Flower
, and the pilots had
great fun in mock combat, dropship against dropship. The SpecOps troops, with
me, Chang and Adams, practiced flight maneuvers outside the 
Dutchman
,
and we took the opportunity for extended combat training sessions on airless
moons, trying out different tactics in the unfamiliar alien armored suits. That
week, while Skippy became increasingly frustrated about not finding an Elder
site that should have been there, was great fun for the humans. The science
team got full use of the 
Flying
 
Dutchman's
 sophisticated sensors
to explore a new star system. The pilots got to fling a Kristang frigate and
Thuranin dropships around in extreme maneuvers, testing the limits of
themselves and the spacecraft. And ground troops, including me, got to fly
around in spacesuits, race across the surface of low-gravity moons, playing war
games and learning what did and didn't work. It had been, by far, the best nine
days of the mission. Now it was time to digest what we'd learned, share
information with each other. And time for a grumpy Skippy to perform extensive
maintenance on the two starships, our dropships, and our Kristang armor suits, which
had suffered abuse during our week of fun.

"Flight training? We're back to basic maneuvers,
we got sloppy last week. We developed bad habits."

"Fun, though," I said with a grin,
"wasn't it?"

"Oh," she laughed, "yes, the most fun
I've had since I learned to fly. Burning the 
Flower's
 engine to fling it
on a low pass over a moon at eight gees?" She shook her head gleefully.
"Nothing compares to that. The 
Dutchman
 is a much better tool for
traveling between stars, but she's an ungainly pig in normal space." 

"Glad you enjoyed it. I have a question; can you
teach me to fly?"

"Teach you to fly?" She said it slowly, as
if she wasn't sure she'd heard me correctly.

"The basics. I've been training with our special
forces, I'm not good enough to be one of them, and I haven't trained with any
team long enough to be useful. The reason I'm doing that is to understand the
tactics and capabilities of each team, so if I ever order them to do something,
I will be informed about what they can do, and how. Skippy’s little tutorial on
Space Combat Maneuvers opened my eyes to how much I don’t know, and how
dangerous that is. If we ever get into space combat, I want to know what our
ships can do, and how they do it." I took a sip of coffee. "If we are
ever shorthanded, like when we raided that asteroid, it would be useful for me
to fill in as a copilot. And also, there may be situations where," I
looked around the galley, and lowered my voice, "I don't want to ask
someone else to go on a mission. Situations where taking a pilot with me is only
putting another person at risk. You know what I mean, Desai."

She knew, she frowned, and gave me a brief, wordless
nod of her head. "Do you have any flying experience at all?"

"None. Never taken a flight lesson, not even a
ride in a single-engine plane."

"Good," she announced to my surprise.
"You won't have any habits to unlearn. Flight training on Earth is all
about aerodynamics, using airspeed to create lift. That doesn't apply out here,
not even when you're flying a dropship in an atmosphere. When I got to Camp
Alpha for flight training, I thought being a helicopter pilot would be an
advantage in flying a vertical takeoff ship like a Buzzard. I was wrong. Even a
helicopter applies the principles of aerodynamics to fly, the rotor blades act
as wings. There is a saying," she smiled, "that helicopters don't use
aerodynamics to fly, they just beat the air into submission. With dropships and
aircraft like the Buzzard, that isn't a joke, their jets are powerful enough to
hover even at high altitude, and they don't rely on wings generating lift to
keep them in the air. Dropships spend most of their time in vacuum anyway,
aerodynamics aren't a factor at all. Not having to learn the principles of
aerodynamics will have a tremendous amount of time. You want to learn to fly,
then?"

"The basics, yes. Enough for emergencies. Can you
do that? Teach me?"

She took a sip of tea and thought a minute, I
appreciated that she put thought into it, rather than merely indulging the whim
of her commanding officer. "We can try. Basic maneuvers in space are not
all that difficult, it's the navigation that is tricky, particularly orbital
mechanics. We will start with a dropship first, if you get that, we'll move on
to the 
Flower
. Our stolen frigate is nimble; she flies like a large
dropship. I'm sending you," she tapped her iPad, "a list of training
courses."

I suppressed a groan. More training materials to read.
Great. "I can't wait to get started. Thank you, Captain Desai."

"You are welcome, Colonel Bishop."

 

My flight training did not take up much of Desai's
time, because when Skippy discovered that I wanted to learn how to fly, he
insisted on training me personally. He wasn't being nice, of course, because me
learning how to pilot a dropship gave him endless material for amusement, and a
whole new arena to insult me and question my intelligence. Unfortunately for
him, I took the training very seriously, and as Desai had explained, because I
was starting from absolute zero, I didn't have any habits or preconceived
notions to overcome. Even reading the training material was interesting, the
whole subject was new to me. I spent a lot of time in a simulator, making
egregious mistakes and listening to Skippy belittle me. The crew, especially my
XO, appreciated me being super busy with flight training, it meant I was out of
their way and not interfering with the proper operation of the ship. For me, it
meant my hours, when not taking duty shifts on the bridge, and training with
the SpecOps teams, was taken up by intensive learning of a subject totally new
to me. It also meant that, darn it, I did not have time to take the officer
training courses that I was already behind on. Every night, or morning or
afternoon, depending on my duty shift schedule, I was so tired that I fell into
dreamless slumber as soon as my head hit the pillow.

Good times.

 

Before the final jump approaching our first of the new
set of targets, we tried programming another jump by ourselves, without
Skippy's help. Before we went into action, we wanted to know whether there was
any possibility we could handle the ship on our own. This time, we spent only
one full day calculating which coordinates to program into the navigation
computer, our science team was somewhat more confident this time than their
first try. Skippy's PowerPoint presentation, about what had gone wrong the
first time we programmed a jump, had indeed dazzled our brilliant science team,
particularly the part where he pointed out that the speed of light was a
variable, and that, technically, the ship emerged on the other side of a jump
slightly before initiating a jump. That last part blew my mind. Anyway, Major
Simms was in the command chair for this jump, it was her duty shift, I stood
beside the command chair and tried not to interfere. Like that was going to
happen.

"All systems report ready for jump," Desai
reported from the left-hand pilot seat. Until we figured out how to jump
correctly, our most experienced pilot was going to be at the helm for all jumps
programmed by humans.

"Engage jump countdown," Simms ordered.

"This is exciting," Skippy said. "To
Bed, Bath, and Beyond!"

Simms and I shared a glance. "I think you mean
'to infinity and beyond', Skippy." I said.

"No, I figured we'd start with something small.
Infinity is too ambitious for monkeys."

I didn't respond, as the jump countdown timer on the
display read 3,2,1-

And we jumped. From one empty region of interstellar
space to another.

"Jump successful," Desai reported.
"Calculating position now."

"Ahhhhh, you'll take forever, I can't stand the
suspense. We emerged within fifty thousand kilometers of the target."
Skippy announced cheerily, our goal for this second jump was to be within one
hundred thousand kilometers. "Good monkeys! Great job! Bananas for
everyone!"

"Skippy!" I admonished him. "Be nice
for a change."

"What? Monkeys love bananas."

I did like bananas, couldn't argue with him there.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TEN

 

The actual final jump was programmed by Skippy, it
took us just outside the target star system, which had a rather common and
uninteresting red dwarf star, with three planets, a rocky inner planet and two
gas giants. None of the planets were anything special. What Skippy found
interesting is there were signs the red dwarf star used to be a class K star,
which is a larger orange star. How it went from a class K to a red dwarf,
Skippy thought, might have involved manipulation by the Elders, he said
sometimes when the Elders needed a lot of energy for a project, they would
extract it from an unimportant star that nobody needed. So, Skippy thought the
Elders might have had a research facility, or monitoring station there. And,
back when the Elders still inhabited the galaxy in physical form, something
about force lines, or some damned thing he'd tried to explain that I hadn't
understood and even had our scientists scratching their heads, meant this star
system would have been an especially good place to locate a communications
node. That was why we were checking out a star system that was so boringly
ordinary, around three quarters of all the stars in the galaxy were red dwarfs.

Colonel Chang's voice came over the bridge speakers.
"
Dutchman
, this is the 
Flower
, we are ready for jump."

"Roger, 
Flower
, good luck, and be careful.
Especially the careful part.” The little frigate would be jumping into the star
system to recon the place, without putting the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
 at
risk. 

"Understood, we will take all precautions."
Skippy had preloaded the 
Flower's
 navigation system with multiple jump
options in case of trouble. "Be back as soon as we can."

On the display, the 
Flower
 disappeared in a
brief flash of gamma rays. Chang had taken her out, with Desai as the chief
pilot. Desai is the only person who had flown that ship, and if they got into
trouble, I wanted Chang to have our most experienced pilot with him. The 
Dutchman

would be fine without Desai, we were in deep space, with plenty of pilots, and
Skippy aboard if anything went wrong. The mission was simple, it should be
safe: jump in near the second planet, because Skippy thought the most likely
place the Elders would have had a base is on a moon circling the second planet.
Jump in, first scan for ships. Then scan for artificial activity anywhere near
the planet. If ships, or any signs of hostile intelligent life are detected,
jump away immediately, jump back to the 
Dutchman
, and we both get the
hell out of there. If nothing dangerous is detected, scan the moons for signs
of any sort of Elder facility. Skippy thought we'd have much better luck
finding signs of an Elder base, using the more sophisticated sensors aboard the

Flying
 
Dutchman
, the 
Flower
 would only be looking for
anything obvious.

It should be easy; it should be safe. It worried the
hell out of me. Our partly beat-up, second-hand, stolen Kristang frigate,
relying on technology the lizards had stolen from higher-tech species and
didn't quite understand, was out there all alone, without Skippy to guide them.
Detaching the frigate to recon the target had been Chang's idea, we had
discussed it at length, me arguing against it, until I had to give up and
concede that Chang was absolutely right. Risking the 
Flower
 was
preferable to risking the 
Dutchman
. Aboard the frigate was a nuke, for
Chang to use for destroying his ship, if it was at risk of being captured. Our
nukes were each encased in a jacket of contaminants that, according to Skippy
and our scientists, would conceal the human origin of the devices. Apparently,
the chemical or atomic makeup of a nuclear device was like a fingerprint, it
would point right back to who made it, when, even the particular facility that
generated the material. All of that was news to me, I thought a nuke was a
nuke.

Thinking about the 
Flower
 self-destructing was
not helping my anxiety as time dragged on. "Hey, Skippy, you said one of
the planets here is rocky? That means it has a solid surface, right, it doesn't
mean it has to be a lifeless rock like Mercury?"

"Correct. 'Rocky' also does not mean it can beat
up other planets in a fight."

"Wow, look at you, showing off your pop culture
knowledge."

"The other two planets here are like Neptune in
your home solar system, they are smallish gas giants. No large rings around
either of them."

How could something 'giant' also be described as
'smallish'? I let it slide, because that is something Skippy could easily spend
half an hour arguing about. "The rocky one, is it livable?"

"Uh, that would be resounding no, Joe. True, it
is at a distance from the star where surface temperature might be considered
habitable for carbon and water based life forms, a distance your species calls
the 'Goldilocks zone'. Not too hot, not too cold. That's a good description, by
the way, I'm going to keep using it. Huh, something useful from monkeys, who'd
have thunk it, huh? Although, when you think about it, Goldilocks was a bit of
a dimwitted bee-atch. Who falls asleep in a house owned by bears? Why would
they need to eat bland porridge, when they could eat her for dinner? The story
illustrates a good point, but it makes no sense at all. Now, there are human
fairy tales I find sensible, although they are, of course, all somewhat
fanciful, being-"

"Skippy?"

"Yeah?"

"This rocky planet? It's not livable?"

"I was getting to that. Where was I? Oh, yeah.
Livable planets around red dwarf stars are exceedingly rare in this galaxy.
Because red dwarf stars emit very low energy, a planet has to be so close to
the star to be warm enough for supporting life, that its surface becomes
tidally locked. That means like your moon, one side always faces the object it
is orbiting. One side of the planet is warm, but the other side is frozen
solid, so cold that any atmosphere might freeze and fall to the surface as
snow. And red dwarves are highly variable, the amount of light they emit can
dim substantially for lengthy periods, other times they can throw out large
solar flares, strong enough to burn off the atmosphere of any rocky planet,
over time."

"Got it. I will scratch red dwarves off any
future house hunting trips."

"A wise choice. Hey, talking about dwarves
reminds me of a fairy tale-"

I let him ramble on, it kept him busy, and helped me
pass the time while waiting for the 
Flower
 to return.

 

Return it did, exactly on time. We had allotted forty
minutes for the mission, jump out to return jump, if it had been late we were
jumping the 
Dutchman
 in close enough to find out what happened, it the 
Flower

had returned early, we'd assume she had hostile ships on her tail. Neither
happened. "
Dutchman
, this is the 
Flower
," Chang said,
"success, we found an artificial structure on one of the moons, right
where Mr. Skippy thought it would be."

"Told you so," Skippy said smugly.

For a change, I ignored the arrogant little beer can.
"That's good news, 
Flower
. Transfer navigation control to Skippy,
so we can take you aboard ASAP."

"Roger that, 
Dutchman
."

 

 

 

 

CHAPTER 6 ELDER SITES ARE DRY HOLES

 

After the first three sites where Skippy thought we
might find unmapped Elder sites, we set course for the fourth potential site, a
journey that was going to take almost five weeks, because we had to go through
three wormholes that weren’t easily connected to each other. After the
disappointment of not finding a comm node at three sites already, I was very
much not looking forward to five weeks of boredom. The science team was happy,
busy, enthralled by pouring over the mountain of data we had collected already.
Skippy was in a bad mood, not his usual jovial self, he was pissed off by our
failures to find a magical radio, and frustrated and puzzled by not
understanding why the last site had been replaced by a perfectly scooped-out
hole. The people who were bored were the pilots and the SpecOps teams. For the
pilots, the next five weeks would be no more interesting than a shuttle run
from DC to New York and back. Other than us trying to program a couple jumps
each week, the only thing the pilots had to look forward to was combat
simulations, and simulating landings with our Thuranin dropships. The SpecOps
teams had nothing to do, other than training over and over. Considering that
I’d made it perfectly clear I wished to avoid combat, the highlight of the next
month for the special forces was a cooking contest. I seriously needed to do
something about morale. Maybe a basketball tournament, one of the few sports we
could play in our small gym.

 

Exercising in the gym helped keep my sanity, I was on
my way there one morning, when I stopped in the middle of the corridor.
"Oh, damn it."

"What is it, Joe?" Skippy asked. "I'm
monitoring all ship functions, and everything is operating nominally at the
moment."

"No, it's, it's nothing. I forgot something,
that's all."

"Damn it, did you forget to pick up your mother
at the airport before we left Earth? I'm sure she's gotten a ride by now. Or
she walked home. Kind of too late now."

"No, Skippy, I did not forget her at the
airport."

"This time."

"Oh for- that was one freakin' time!"

"Pretty impressive there, Joe. Most people go
their whole lives without leaving a close relative stuck at an airport for five
hours, you did that when you were only seventeen. You were a precocious
disappointment."

"That happened one freakin' time, and I'll never
hear the end of it. It was Amanda's fault, anyway, if she hadn't distracted
me-"

"Thinking with the wrong head, huh?"

"Skippy, I was a young, stupid kid back
then."

"Huh. You're under the illusion that you are
different now?"

"Yeah. I'm not as young. Anyway, I inherited that
forgetfulness. When I was seven years old, my father took me to a Red Sox game
at Fenway park, after the game he used the bathroom while I went to go buy a T
shirt, and he forgot about me. He was across the Maine state line before he
realized I wasn't in the car."

"Huh. This story I haven't heard. What
happened?"

Standing in the corridor aboard the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
,
I could remember that day like it was yesterday. "I waited on Boyleston
Street, anybody who saw me probably figured my old man was drinking in a bar
and told me to stand outside. I remember a peanut vendor gave me a free bag of
peanuts, he must have felt sorry for me. Anyway, after a couple hours, it's
really dark and it's getting chilly, this was in early June, my father's car
pulls up, and all he says is 'there you are'. I got in, and we drove to my
uncle's place in Brunswick for the night."

"That's a good story. How come I didn't hear that
before?"

"How did you hear about me forgetting my mother
at the Bangor airport?"

"Your mother talked about it to her sister, while
you were home, right before we went up to the 
Dutchman
. I was listening
to everyone at that party."

"That was a good party," I said sadly,
thinking back to the last day I was on Earth.

 

Maybe a hundred people had stopped by my parents'
house that afternoon, excited to see someone who had returned from the stars.
They all wanted to see 'Barney' Bishop, and I didn't mind people in my hometown
calling me that. To keep things as low-key as possible, our Thuranin dropship
had landed in the road right in front of my parents' house. I had called my
parents from Paris, saying that I would be dropping by for a short visit,
staying over only one night. Sergeant Kendall and two people of her Air Force
security team accompanied me, I slept that night on a couch in my parents'
house, while the security people overnighted in the back of a National Guard
truck in the driveway. Skippy by that time was already back aboard the 
Dutchman
,
getting the ship ready for departure, and remotely flying dropships to bring
supplies up into orbit.

To say that I slept on the couch was an exaggeration,
I only managed maybe three hours of shut-eye that night. There had been too
many people who wanted to meet me, talk with me, and too many questions.
Questions about what I had been doing, what was going on with UNEF on Paradise,
and what lay in Earth's future. The Kristang no longer had Earth under their
iron grip, but people knew there were plenty more Kristang in the galaxy, and a
Thuranin ship hung in low orbit, and the Ruhar were still out there also.

To answer all those questions, I had a lame cover
story that UNEF, and the US government, wanted me to stick closely to. Before I
left Paris, I'd been forced to endure a four-hour briefing, including a mock
question and answer session. By the time I was done, my head was spinning so
much that I had a hard time remembering which was the cover story, and which
was the truth. The cover story was that I and a few other UNEF soldiers were
brought back to Earth on a Thuranin star carrier, for some mission that I
couldn't talk about. When we got here, the Thuranin learned the Kristang had
been abusing an ally, so the Thuranin took appropriate action, and wiped the
Kristang out. Me being on Earth was a quick visit, I needed to get back aboard
the Thuranin ship to continue our voyage to wherever we were going, which was
top secret. The UN Expeditionary Force on Paradise was doing great,
communications between Paradise and Earth were spotty because of enemy
activity, but there was nothing to worry about. Everything was wonderful, Earth
was safe, and every morning people would wake up to sunshine and birds signing.
Or some BS like that, I tried to stick to the script as much as possible, with
Sergeant Kendall watching me like a hawk. For her sake, I was on my best
behavior, because while I would be leaving Earth, she would be stuck behind
with the consequences.

Either I sucked at lying, or my parents simply knew me
too well, my story didn't convince them. They knew not to ask too many questions;
I could see it in their eyes. The next morning, my mother left the table at
breakfast because she was crying so much. My father took me out in the field
behind the house, supposedly to show me how he'd modified the tractor to run on
home-brew wood alcohol. "Son," he said, with his head half under the
engine cover, "I don't know what the real situation is, and I'm not going
to ask you to tell me. You're wearing sergeant's stripes now, and I heard one
of those Air Force security people call you 'Colonel' last night. Whatever is
going on, know that your mother and I are damned proud of you. I have only one
question I'd like you to answer." He pulled his head out of the engine
cover and looked me straight in the eye, with a glance over at Sergeant
Kendall, who was standing a discrete distance away. "Are we safe now from
those damned lizards? And the hamsters, and whoever else is out there?"

"Yes, Dad. I can't tell you why, or how."

"Good," he breathed a sigh of relief.

"Good." I said, not knowing what else to
say. Sergeant Kendall cleared her throat meaningfully, with a look at the
dropship. It was time to go. "You did a good job on the tractor
there."

"Ayuh. We're getting gas supplies again, it's
rationed, of course. And electricity, you saw that."

"Yeah. Looks good." My parents' house had
lights all night again, things were getting back to normal on Earth. That was
worth fighting for. "Dad, I have to go."

"Ayuh, I suppose you do." He stuck out his
hand awkwardly, his jaw set. That's the way it had always been in our family,
we didn't talk about things. "Good visit, thanks for coming home."

I had been through too much to go for that bullshit
again. Not this time. Not again. I took my father's hand, then pulled him in
for a back-thumping hug. And I cried. And he cried too.

"Ah, shit on a shingle," he said after we
separated, and he wiped his eyes with the back of his flannel sleeve.
"You'll let us know what you're doing, when you can?

"Sure thing, Dad. You can count on it."

 

"So what did you forget?" Skippy asked,
bringing me back to the present.

"What?" I was still thinking of my last day
on Earth.

"Damn, you are forgetful," Skippy scoffed.
"You stopped in the middle of the corridor, because you said your forgot
something."

"Oh, I forgot my weightlifting gloves, that's
all."

 

That night, or actually early the next morning, I
awoke with a sudden jerk. Not the kind of thing where, when you're falling
asleep and your leg jerks by itself. I hate that. This was me soundly asleep,
having a dream, when my subconscious rudely pulled me out of it. For a moment,
I froze in shock, wondering if something had happened to the ship. No. No
alarms, no beeping from my zPhone, no Skippy shouting at me through the speaker
in the ceiling. It wasn’t the curry I had for dinner the previous night either,
that was delicious.

Then it hit me. An idea. I had thought of an idea
while I was sleeping. I rolled out of bed and began pulling pants and a shirt
on, after glancing at my iPad for the uniform of the day. Damn. It was 0337 in
the morning, ship time. Sometimes I wish my stupid brain would just let me
sleep. "Hey, Skippy, you awake?"

"Always. That must have been quite a dream, you
woke up fast."

Whatever I'd been dreaming about, it was gone now.
"Yeah. Hey, that map you showed us, of why it's going to take us five
weeks to get to the next potential Elder site, can you show me that again on my
iPad?"

"Done. Why? You checking my math in the middle of
the night?"

"Like that's ever going to happen. No, I'm
checking your logic."

Skippy snorted. "Wow, you sure you're not still
dreaming? Me? A flaw in my logic?"

"Not a flaw, a gap." I looked at the map. On
the 2D surface of an iPad display, it wasn't as impressive, or easy to
understand, as on the 3D displays of the ship's bridge. There was no sense of
depth. When Skippy first showed us star maps, I thought the 3D effect was nice
but not necessary, because the Milky Way galaxy is a disc, so not seeing the
thickness of the disc didn't matter much. I was wrong. At any scale other than
looking at the entire galaxy from far, far way, it sure does matter, because
the arms of the Milky Way's disc are thousands of lightyears thick, top to
bottom. The 
Dutchman's
 current position was in the Orion Spur, about six
hundred lightyears from the Gum Nebula. Yeah, that kind of description didn't
used to mean much to me either, back when stars were something I only saw from
Earth's surface. I touched the iPad display and zoomed in the view with my
fingertips. Wormholes now appeared, scattered here and there at random, the
wormholes showing as blinking purple lights. I touched a wormhole symbol, and a
dotted purple line appeared, showing which other wormhole it connected to.
Skippy had a way, on the main bridge display, of showing all wormhole
connections in the local area, I didn't need that at the moment. Some wormholes
connected to a wormhole only a dozen or so lightyears away, a few connected
points thousands of lightyears apart. The furthest Skippy knew of, was a
wormhole that connected to a wormhole seven thousand lightyears from the
Sagittarius dwarf galaxy, a distance of fifty five thousand lightyears from its
origin wormhole in the Perseus arm of the Milky Way. Why that particular
wormhole ended thousands of lightyears from the closest star, no one knew. The
average was around six hundred lightyears, no one knew why one wormhole
connected to another, for most wormhole connections went past wormholes they
should, logically, connect to. Even Skippy didn't know, and not knowing
frustrated the hell out of him. The arrangement of wormholes in the galaxy made
no sense, that was an affront to Skippy's sense of how the Elders would have
left things. And that left him wondering whether some unknown force had screwed
with the Elders' stuff, after they left. Or, worse, if what he thought he
remembered about the Elders wasn't complete. Or true.

"A gap?" Skippy asked. "I'm intrigued
by whatever your dumdum monkey brain could possibly consider as a gap, go
on."

"The problem is, there are other potential Elder
sites closer to us, but those sites aren't close to a wormhole, so we can't get
there, right?" 

"Flawless logic with no gaps so far. You got it,
Captain Obvious."

No way was I getting back to sleep now, so I pulled my
boots on. "Tell me something, Captain Oblivious. We have our magic beanstalk,
an Elder wormhole controller module, in a cargo bay, right? Are there any
dormant wormholes you could open with the module, that would create a shorter
path to a potential Elder site? Or could you connect a nearby wormhole, to a
wormhole near some place we want to go, instead of where it connects to
now?""

"Ho-leey shit," he said slowly.

"That wasn't exactly an answer, Skippy."

"Give me a moment, for crying out loud, I'm
running through a ginormous data set here. Ginormous even for me. This could
take a while."

Skippy's voice faded away, replaced by a rock and roll
song.

"Skippy?" I was beginning to get worried.
The music kept playing. "Skippy?!"

"Ooooooh, that was a lot of data. Hey, I used 37%
of my capacity that time, a new record."

"What the hell was that?"

"Huh?"

"The music!"

"Oh, that was Don't Stop Believin' by Journey. I
thought you'd be lonely while I was crunching numbers."

"Very thoughtful. You scared me. Don't do that
again."

"You didn't like DJ Skippy-Skip and the Fresh
Tunes? Hey, I'm bangin' out nothing but hits here, home boy."

I laughed, in spite of my recent anxiety.
"Another time, maybe. You said crunched the numbers, and?"

"Oh, happy day. The answer is yes. Damn it, I am
a dumbass. 
I
 should have thought of this idea. Shown up by a monkey, how
humiliating. Damn it, now I'd be embarrassed to contact the Collective, they'd
all laugh their asses off at me. There are two sites we should check out, less
than a month away, if I reprogram an active wormhole, to connect to a wormhole
that has been long dormant. Hmm. Problem is, I'll need to put the original
wormhole back the way it was after we go through. Even then, somebody is going
to notice there is something odd going on with wormholes in this sector."

"That is actually a bonus, Skippy. Then the
wormhole near Earth will not be the only strange-acting wormhole, and that
makes it look less suspicious. The Thuranin or Maxohlx or whoever can chase
their tails trying to figure out what's going on, and take attention away from
Earth."

"The Maxohlx are vaguely cat-like in appearance,
but they do not have tails."

"It's an expression, Skippy."

"Oh. So noted. Hey, uh, Joe, we can, uh, keep
this between us, right? No need for the whole crew to know that I missed
something super obvious?"

I hit the door button and stepped into the hallway,
attaching the zPhone earpiece. "Don't worry, your secret is safe with me,
Skippy. In private, of course, I'm going to bust your balls about it every
chance I get."

"I would expect nothing less. A new course has been
loaded into the navigation system."

"Great. I'm going to the bridge, I'll notify the
pilot."

 

When I got to the bridge, Sergeant Adams was the duty
officer, sitting in the command chair. The two pilots, a French woman and a
Chinese man, were relaxed in their couches, it appeared they were running a
flight simulation. According to the main bridge display, the jump engines had a
22% charge, there wasn't anything for the pilots, duty officer or sensor team
in the CIC to do for a long while. The 
Dutchman
 was hanging in deep
interstellar space, 2.2 lightyears from the nearest star system, a red dwarf
that was a dime a dozen in the galaxy, a star nobody would care about.

"Captain on the bridge!" Called out someone
in the CIC behind me.

Adams turned the chair to face me. "Good morning,
Captain," she said while rubbing on one of her fingernails with a frown.

I blinked and opened my mouth, unsure what to say.
Before we left Earth orbit, I told the crew to dispense with saluting and most
formal military protocol, we were all going to be stuck in a can together for
months, possibly years. Adams not saluting me, therefore, was not a problem.
What surprised me was seeing Sergeant Adams using nail polish, and apparently
fussing over her nails. She hadn't been wearing nail polish when we first met,
at the Kristang jail where she had been tortured and we were both scheduled to
be executed. And we hadn't brought along any nail polish when we left Paradise.
When we landed on Earth, after the first day, she'd been taken away for a
medical checkup and debriefing, and I hadn't seen her again until the week
before the 
Dutchman
 departed, a week in which everyone involved was
frantically working 20 hour days to get the ship ready, and supplies loaded and
stowed away. If she had nail polish then, or in the weeks since, I hadn't
noticed. Most of the time I'd seen her, she'd been in the gym, or in the cargo
holds we were using for training. Neither of those places were good
opportunities for me to observe her personal grooming habits.

It wasn't that her wearing nail polish was a surprise,
she was a woman, and women do that, even when they are tough as nails Marines.
Maybe especially when a woman is a tough as nails Marine, she may feel a need
to have something that is personal and feminine. I don't know, women are still
a mystery to me. Adams is an attractive woman, if I can say that without being
creepy as her commanding officer. When I first met her, and all the way back to
Earth, her hair had been kept cropped very close, almost shaved. Now her hair
was loose, wavy sort of Afro type curls on top, short on the sides, and she had
kind of a, I guess it was a lightning bolt or stripe or something, shaved into
the right side. Also, when I'd first met her, busting her out of a Kristang jail,
her naked back had been scarred from torture. We had never talked about how she
had been abused by the Kristang, if she didn't want to talk about it, I wasn't
going to push her. What I had seen was that she'd been in pain when working out
in the gym then, and she'd worn loose-fitting clothes. A couple days ago, I'd
seen her in the gym, wearing shorts and a tank top, and there were no scars on
her skin. Dr. Skippy had taken care of her scars on the outside, Marine Corps
doctors had cleared her to return to the 
Dutchman
, telling me they were
satisfied with her scars on the inside.

I raised my eyebrows and glanced at her nails.
"Red? Is that official Marine Corps red, Adams?" I knew she was a bit
self-conscious about being the only United States Marine aboard the ship.

She laughed. "No, sir, this is a more of a coral
red. The rest of me belongs to the Corps, this is for me. I just did my nails
this morning, and I chipped this one already."

"Looks good." I didn’t know what else to
say. "How are we doing?" As the captain, I probably should have been
more formal, requesting a sitrep or ship status, this is what happens when an
Army infantry grunt gets put in command of a ship. The Army has boats, not
ships.

She pointed at the display. "The last jump was
successful, no unfriendlies detected. An hour ago, we went through a molecular
hydrogen cloud, Skippy said the density was something like 3 million atoms per
cubic centimeter, and that's unusual. No effect on the ship. That was our big
excitement for the evening."

Skippy's voice interrupted excitedly. "Also, the
gas cloud was 98% hydrogen and less than 2 percent helium, that is highly
unusual in the interstellar medium. Typically, cool, dense areas of the ISM are
comprised of-"

"Science team, Skippy, please discuss that with
the science team." I said while rolling my eyes, and Adams smiled.

"Sure, if you enjoy being ignorant-"

"Skippy, I'm not embracing ignorance, and I'm not
blowing you off. If you find this interesting, with your vast knowledge of the
galaxy, then our science team will definitely be interested. I could listen to
you, but I couldn't appreciate it the way the science team will."

"Oh. I did think you were blowing me off. All
right, I'll discuss this with the smarter monkeys."

"Thank you, Skippy. Sergeant Adams, I'm here to
liven up your evening, you are the first to hear this. Skippy has rerun
calculations of an optimal search pattern, and we will be able to cut months
off the schedule." The two pilots had turned in their chair while Adams
and I were talking, they both looked surprised to hear the news. "Skippy,
is the new course loaded into the autopilot?"

"Affirmative," Skippy confirmed, "it is
labelled jump option Delta."

"New calculations?" Adams asked, with her
own raised eyebrow. She knew Skippy well enough to figure there was more to the
story. She also knew not to ask.

"A different approach, based on recently
discovered information," I explained. The information Skippy had
discovered recently, was me giving him an idea he should have thought of himself.
That could stay between us. "I'll explain more in the staff meeting,"
a meeting that was the bane of my existence; we had a meeting of team leaders,
every other day, this required me to think of something new to say every other
day. Something new to say, on a ship where one day cruising through
interstellar space was like the day before, and the next.

"Aye, aye, Captain, we'll engage the new course
when we jump next." Adams acknowledged. "The jump coils will be fully
charged in," she glanced at the main display, "one hour and thirty
seven minutes."

"Great. I'm going to get coffee." Otherwise,
I was going to fall back asleep.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER ELEVEN

 

Skippy was super, extra mega excited about the next
site on his list, it was the location that he thought was almost certain to
contain an Elder site. What interested me was this system was centered on a
class K orange star, about half the size of Earth's sun, it wasn't just another
too-common red dwarf. Skippy was fairly bursting with confidence, because this
star system, with its location in the Orion Spur near De Mairan's Nebula, was
perfectly situated for an Elder communications node, because of invisible force
lines in the galaxy, or some sciency BS like that Skippy had made a futile
attempt to explain to me.

We found the star system. We did not find any sign of
an Elder facility, or any sign an Elder facility had ever been there. After
four days of intensive scanning, Skippy was frustrated and sounded depressed.
"This makes absolutely zero freakin' sense. Zero! I've proved that my
model for predicting unknown Elder sites is valid. If any place should have an
Elder site, it's this star system. I do not understand this, at all. A moon
orbiting this gas giant is the perfect place. There 
should
 be an Elder
facility here.

"Should we keep looking, Skippy? Maybe there is
another Elder facility somewhere else in this system."

"Unlikely," he said sourly, disappointment
clear in his voice. "Oh, what the hell, sure, why not. Maybe there's some
unknown minor factor that I'm not taking into account. Do you mind if we take
the ship around the system for a week or so, I want to make some very detailed
sensor readings?"

"We'll go wherever you want, Skippy."

"Really?" He sounded surprised.

"Yeah, duh, you lunkhead. The whole reason we're
out here is to find your magic freakin' radio. We'll go wherever you think we
need to go. Within reason, I'm not endangering the crew without a damned good
reason, you know that. You want the 
Dutchman
 to hop around this system a
couple days?"

"Five days, a week at the most."

"No problem. This will be a good opportunity for
training. You Ok if we program some of the jumps?"

He sighed. "Ugh. In that case, better plan on ten
days, because we'll be so off target on every jump. You monkeys are lucky to
hit the correct star system."

 

With the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
 making short
hops around the star system, the crew took the opportunity for extensive training
that we couldn't do while the ship was traveling between stars. Pilots had fun
flying dropships, flying the 
Flower
 in simulated combat, and programming
jumps on our own. We were getting somewhat better at our jump accuracy, despite
Skippy's constant mocking and complaining. The science team, when not examining
the sensor data Skippy was collecting, was also busy training, mostly their
training involved how to use space suits without killing themselves. They also
went through familiarization with ship systems they wouldn't normally have
contact with, such as the sensor and weapons controls in the Combat Information
Center. While I was duty officer on the bridge, three scientists got a tour of
the CIC. It was a slow time for the bridge and CIC crews; all dropships were
safely tucked into their landing bays, and the 
Flower
 was attached to
its platform for maintenance. There were not any crew outside the ship
practicing space walks, and we weren't scheduled to jump again for another
three hours. Sitting in the command chair, I was taking a quiz about the flight
controls on a Thuranin dropship, and hoping there would be good stuff left over
for lunch when my shift ended at 1400 hours.

One of the scientist, a Doctor Zheng, wandered away
from the CIC and into the bridge. Sergeant Adams hurried over to shoo her away
from me, but I signaled to Adams that I was fine with Zheng being there.

"Doctor Zheng, are you enjoying the tour?" I
asked. She was a biologist and medical doctor, the ship's controls might have
been less interesting to her than to others on the science team.

"It is good to get out of the lab," she said
with a smile. "So far, the only places we've been to have been an
abandoned space station, and some airless moons. There has not been much for a
biologist to do. I've been helping Major Simms in the hydroponics hold."
Before we left Earth, Simms had brought aboard an experimental hydroponics set
up, I think it was something NASA had been playing with. We were growing fresh
vegetables and fruit using hydroponics, our first crop of spinach had been
served in a salad two days ago. "When we came out here, I had hoped for
greater opportunities to study alien biospheres."

Damn. One thing I was not in the mood for right then
was an uncomfortable conversation. "Doctor, I did explain our situation,
our mission, before we left orbit," I said gently, wishing to avoid an
argument. Plus, I could empathize with her, she was bored, with few prospects
of pursuing her life's work. "In fact, I argued against including a
science team. You are not essential to the mission, and you are putting your
lives at great risk being out here. As I told everyone who applied for the
mission, it is unlikely, highly unlikely, that we will ever return to Earth.
Even if the mission is concluded successfully, the ship could be stranded in
deep space."

"If Skippy leaves us?"

"Yes," I said simply.

"Would you really do it?" She pointed to the
self-destruct button on the left arm of the captain's chair, under its clear
plastic protective cover with 'SELF DESTRUCT' in large red letters. To press
the button, the duty officer needed to turn a lever that held the clear plastic
cover down, flip the cover back out of the way, press the button once to
activate, then hold the button down to confirm. At the same time, another
officer in the CIC needed to do the same to the self-destruct button there, as
a precaution against accidents, or somebody going crazy. Precautions were all
fine ideas, and assuring to the crew, in reality Skippy wouldn't allow the
nukes to detonate unless I ordered them to explode, and Skippy agreed.
"Would you destroy the ship, if we were stranded? Or if aliens were going
to board the ship and learn humans are out here?"

"I'd do it without hesitation." I said
grimly.

Her raised eyebrows told me I'd surprised her, and not
in a good way. "That's-"

"Without hesitation, because if I took time to
think about it, I might not do it." I added. "Army training is damned
good, it not only trains you for what to do, it trains you to do it no matter
what the conditions. Trains you to do what you have to, even when you're tired,
and you're hungry, and you're injured, and people are shooting at you. You've
seen soldiers taking apart their weapons, and putting them back together, over
and over, blindfolded?"

She nodded.

"We do that so the action is in our muscle
memory, and we don't have to think about it. Like tying your shoes. You don't
really need to think about it, right, you've done it so many times that your
fingers know what to do?"

"I never thought about it like that."

"I am not going to self-destruct the ship unless
we absolutely have to. If we have to, I will do it. We can't allow our actions
out here to put Earth at risk." I could see my little speech hadn't help
her mood any, so I added "One thing I can tell you, Doctor, is that
anything can happen out here. You may very well get an opportunity to study
alien biology, first hand."

She nodded silently, unconvinced. Sergeant Adams took
that cue to usher her out of the bridge, and I went back to my dropship flight
controls quiz. Or, I tried to. Talking about self-destructing the ship had put
a damper on my mood also. Now I was really hoping there as something good left
in the galley when my shift ended.

 

While the 
Dutchman
 hopped around the star
system, I took the opportunity for real flight training, including my first
solo flight in a dropship. Skippy announced he grudgingly, reluctantly, had to
concede that it was possible, possible although extremely unlikely, that I
might be able to fly an actual dropship away from the 
Dutchman
, without
immediately destroying both the dropship and the star carrier. For my first
solo flight, he did request we first eject his escape pod out to a safe
distance, a request I denied. The whole time I was flying, a simple loop around
the 
Dutchman
 and back into the landing bay, he grumbled, second-guessed
everything I did, and predicted doom for me and everyone aboard our starship.

On my own, I got the dropship lined up to re-enter the
landing bay, and manually flew it in, using gentle, precise movements with the
thrusters. While the 
Dutchman
 usually took control of dropships and
guided them in, for pilot training we needed to learn how to handle the task
manually. My first attempt to settle the dropship into the docking clamps
missed by less than half a meter. Keep in mind, this smaller type of Thuranin
dropship was still almost forty meters long, it wasn't like flying a little
Cessna. Even the smallest dropship needs the capability to drop down through an
atmosphere without burning up from heat, and the ability to lift itself,
passengers and cargo all the way from the surface into orbit, and sometimes
beyond. The incredibly advanced technology of the Thuranin couldn't shrink a
dropship any smaller than a medium-size airliner on Earth. Flying in the vacuum
and zero gravity of interstellar space, the dropship still had substantial
mass, when it got moving in the wrong direction, it took a lot of force from
thrusters to correct its course. One little adjustment from me, got the dot of
light centered over the docking clamps in the cockpit display, and I pressed
the button to engage the clamps. As the dropship was pulled down and secured, I
announced "
Dutchman
, this is Barney, down and secured. Powering
down now." Barney was my stupid pilot callsign, I wanted something cool
like 'Rocketman', the problem with that notion was that traditionally, pilots
do not get to choose their own callsigns. Your callsign is chosen for you by
other pilots, and a request for anything too cool, like 'TopGun', is
immediately shot down by your fellow pilots. 'Barney' was the least humiliating
of my callsign options. I had to talk our pilot community out of calling me
'Buzzer', a name they wanted to give me, because of the number of times the
cockpit warning buzzer had gone off while I was flying. Stupid buzzer, I
suspected that Skippy made the damned thing go off at random just to mess with
me.

Desai replied, "Barney, welcome back! Closing
landing bay doors now."

"Roger, 
Dutchman
, how did I do?"

Skippy answered before Desai could speak. "It is
a miracle! Truly a freakin' miracle. Barney, the fact that we all survived you
flying on your own, is compelling evidence of divine intervention."

"You did just fine, Colonel Bishop," Desai
assured me. "Your first solo flight was a success; you are ready for the
next phase of training. We'll find a nice asteroid or small moon for you to
land one, somewhere."

"Great!" I safed the controls and unstrapped
from the seat. "Desai, after I finish dropship training, I can start
learning about systems aboard the 
Flower
?"

"Yes, sir, it is not that diff-" she started
to say.

"What? Joe is going to try flying a starship? Oh
man, forget it," Skippy moaned. "The galaxy is doomed. Doomed! Look,
you need to drop me off somewhere first, I'll put together a list of
uninhabited planets."

 

We stayed there for nine days. It was nine days of
excellent training for the crew, and the science team got to pour over the
super-detailed sensor data that Skippy was collecting. Skippy confirmed the
star system was, indeed, a perfect location for an Elder comm node. He
confirmed there absolutely should be an Elder facility there. And he also
confirmed there was no sign the Elders had ever been there. For several days,
he was quiet, not making his usual snarky comments, not engaging me when I
tried to provoke him, so I changed tactics and was extra nice to him. That may
have helped, or maybe he perked up simply because we got to the next site and
he had something to occupy himself.

 

The fifth star system we investigated was another
disappointment. It was not a disappointment in terms of us not finding an Elder
facility where Skippy predicted there should be one. It was not a
disappointment in terms of the Elder site having been looted of all the
valuable stuff long ago. It was a disappointment because the place was smashed
to bits.

This site, unlike most of the sites we’d seen so far,
was not on an airless moon orbiting a gas giant planet. This site was on a
planet, about half the size of Earth, that had a thin atmosphere composed
mostly of carbon dioxide. From what we could detect from orbit, it was
lifeless, unless there were organisms in the soil.

The disappointment was caused by the fact that the
Elder clearly had built a facility there, a large facility, and that the
surface of the planet had been extensively bombarded by meteors. Skippy’s
analysis determined that this star system used to have a normal asteroid field,
and that somehow the orbits of the asteroids had been disrupted, to send rocks
careening around the system. The two innermost planets, including the one with
the Elder facility, had gotten pounded over millions of years, and the bombardment
was still continuing.

“Is there anything left down there?” I asked
hopefully. On the display, a map showed the original outlines of the Elder
base, it had sprawled over two kilometers in diameter. Surely something that
size could not have been completely wiped out of existence.”

“No,” Skippy sighed, “there’s a whole lot of nothin’
down there, Joe. A big meteor went splat practically right on top of the place,
about three or four million years ago, and there are impacts in the area before
and after the big rock fell. Any Elder artifacts that survived the big impact
would have been thrown far away, there is a debris field extending three
hundred kilometers from the impact site.”

“Three hundred kilometers?” I asked, astonished.

“Meteors can be big, Joe. This planet has been hit
many times by objects larger than the one that hit the Yucatan on Earth and
finished off the dinosaurs.”

“Damn. Are there any meteors, or asteroids or
whatever, that will hit soon?”

“I haven’t completed a scan of the entire system yet;
I can tell you there aren’t any objects larger than a basketball that will
impact within the next month. Why? Are you thinking of going down there?”

“Yeah. We can scan the surface, right, and if we find
any Elder stuff that’s still intact, we should go check it out. Also, our
pilots should get experience flying dropships in an atmosphere. This could also
be a good place for practicing ground assaults. As long as we’re here, we might
as well take the opportunity.”

He sighed heavily. “Sure, why not?”

“Listen, Skippy, I know you’re disappointed, we all
are. Again, your method of predicting the location of Elder sites has been
pretty damned accurate so far, right? We’re on the trail, it’s only a matter of
time now.”

 

The 
Dutchman
 stayed in orbit around the fifth
site for seven days, when we conducted extensive training. The science team was
given permission to go down to the surface also, after I made them go through
an hour of begging and whining about it. Dr. Zheng, the biologist, was super
excited to find microorganisms in the soil, Skippy declared they didn’t pose
any threat to human biology, so I let her bring samples aboard the ship. Part
of the training was for ground troops to test the portable shelters we’d
constructed, Captain Smythe and his SAS team stayed overnight in shelters on
the surface. They were scheduled to come back aboard in the morning, and I got
up early to prepare a treat for them in the galley. "Crap! Damn it, I
wanted to make cinnamon rolls to go with breakfast, but this worthless dough
isn't rising." I jiggled the bowl with the dough, as if that was going to
help. The dough just sat there unhelpfully, looking stupid and uncooperative.

Adams peered over the counter at the dough.
"Smells good."

"No," I had to admit, "that's the
cinnamon sugar mix I was going to put in it." As a colonel, I should have
been able to order the dough to rise. That hadn't worked. "Well, if this
doesn't rise, maybe I can pass it off as cinnamon pita bread?"

Adams laughed. "I don't think you're going to
fool anyone with that."

“It’s your fault, Joe,” Skippy said through a speaker.
“You didn’t give the dough anything to feed on. You didn’t use the sugar, like
you were supposed to.”

“There’s plenty of sugar here, Skippy,” I pointed to
the plastic bowl next to the dough.

“I mean, you’re supposed to put some sugar in the
dough, dumdum. The yeast eats the sugar, and create gas that causes the dough
to rise. Did you even read the instructions?”

“Uh,” I said guiltily, “sort of.” I had seen ‘sugar’
in the recipe. Cinnamon rolls looked easy when my mother made them. “It’s
doomed, then?”

“Could be. I’ve performed a chemical analysis; it is
possible you could still rescue that awful mess. Put some plastic wrap over the
top, cover it with a towel, and put it near that heat lamp to your left. Not
under the heat lamp, just near it.”

“Thanks, Skippy.”

“No problem. I calculate a 62% chance of success. Next
time, read the recipe, huh? I can’t do 
all 
of your thinking for you.”

Skippy saved the day, the dough rose somewhat, and
people loved the cinnamon rolls. Sure, maybe they mostly liked the sweet icing
I put on top.

 

After Smythe’s team came back aboard, we retrieved the
dropships, and jumped away to check out the sixth potential site. The crew was
exhausted from the grueling training we’d conducted, it was good that it was
going to take us two weeks to get to the next target, people needed rest and
equipment needed maintenance. Skippy’s mood could have used some improvement
also.

Three days of stand-down rest left the crew refreshed,
and we went back to a normal schedule. After the excitement of training on a
planet, the crew and the science team were all eagerly anticipating what we
would find next. I tried to temper their enthusiasm, what we didn’t need was
another disappointment sinking morale. We needed diversions aboard the ship, I
made plans to meet Major Simms at dinner, to talk about what sort of fun we
could have, with the supplies she’d brought on board. The British team was
cooking that day, it was something they called ‘Sunday Roast dinner,’ and it
smelled delicious when I walked in the galley.

Then I looked at it. There was some sort of green,
wrinkly, stiff vegetable-looking thing on the side of my plate. Next to the
roast chicken and Yorkshire pudding and the carrots and the scalloped potatoes,
it was out of place, like someone had crumpled up a green napkin and left it
there.

Simms
was sitting to my left, I whispered to her, keeping quiet to avoid insulting
the British team. "Major, what is this?"

"You ever been to a salad bar at a
restaurant?" She asked quietly. "The salad stuff is in bowls, the
bowls are on top of a bed of ice, and in between is this stuff."

A light bulb when on in my head. "Oh, yeah, I've
seen this stuff." With a fork, I poked at it. "I thought that was
plastic decoration, it was supposed to be lettuce or something. That stuff is
real? It's supposed to be food?"

"It is food, it's kale. It's good. Look, it's not
limp like lettuce."

She was right, it moved under my fork like it was
crisp. "Kale, yeah, I’ve heard of it. They deep-fried it?"

"I don't know how they prepared it," now she
poked it with a fork suspiciously.

"You know what would make it better?" I
stabbed the kale with a fork and sniffed at it. "If you did deep-fry it,
but replaced the kale with a Snickers bar."

"Or a Twinkie," Taylor said. "You ever
try a deep-fried Twinkie? They have them at the state fair in Tennessee."

"A deep-fried Twinkie. Unbelievable." Skippy
said from the speaker in the ceiling. "This is proof there is a God."

"Huh?" I asked. "How do you figure
that?"

"Because this clearly shows you monkeys are so
freakin' stupid, there's no way you could have survived until now, without
divine intervention helping you."

"Amazing," I took a bite of the kale, if
that's what it was. It wasn't bad. "Whatever this is, apparently it's a
religious experience for Skippy."

"I didn't say, oh, forget it." People
laughed. Not at me this time, at 
Skippy
. "Shut up, all of
you."

"Wow, that was a snappy comeback. Bye,
Skippy," I said, "pleasant dreams." I could get to like kale. If
that's what it was.

 

A thought occurred to me, while sitting in my office,
three days before we were scheduled to arrive at the next target. It was not a
pleasant thought. I pulled up a schematic of the ship on my iPad, then an
external view we'd taken from one of the Thuranin dropships. "Skippy, how
many star carriers like the 
Dutchman
 do the Thuranin have?"

"If you mean this particular type or class of
ship, they have hundreds. It is a common design they have used for almost four
hundred years, with little change." He snorted. "Little change,
because in the last four hundred years, the Thuranin haven't managed to steal
enough higher technology to improve their piece of junk starships. Or they
stole it, and can't figure out how it works. Stupid little green
pinheads."

"They have hundreds exactly like the 
Dutchman
?
No little differences?" I knew the United States Navy had 'standard' ship
designs like the 
Arleigh
 
Burke
 destroyers, but among those ships
were subclasses that an experienced sailor could identify at a glance.

"Oh. Yeah, sure, there are subtle differences, as
ships are overhauled or upgraded over the years. There are, or were, about
seventy ships almost identical to our 
Flying
 
Dutchman
. Why? Were
you hoping our pirate ship is something special? A collector's item or
something?"

"The opposite, Skippy, I'm hoping there is
nothing unique about the 
Dutchman
 that can be easily identified. If
someone gets close enough for a good look at us, or our stealth field fails, I
don't want the Thuranin realizing this is the same ship that disappeared near
Paradise, where there are humans, and the wormhole near the human home world
mysteriously shut down around the same time this ship disappeared. That might
make a suspicious Thuranin ask too many questions."

"I see your point, and it is a good one, Joe. The
Thuranin tend to be rather paranoid about security."

"Not paranoid enough, they didn't count on Skippy
the Magnificent."

"True, I am magnificent. And, if you were being
sincere for a change, thank you."

"Sincere. I give you props when you've earned it,
Skippy. All right, have the Thuranin lost a star carrier just like this one?
Lost, like, they didn't see it get destroyed in battle, all they know is it
went missing somewhere."

"Hmmm, that's a tough one, I need to search the
Thuranin database. Uh, no, unfortunately, no ship exactly like this configuration
is missing, other than the 
Dutchman
."

"Crap."

"However," Skippy added with a touch of a
smirk to his voice, "a star carrier very similar to the 
Dutchman

did disappear mysteriously in this sector seventeen years ago. At the time, it
was fully loaded with heavy Kristang warships. The Thuranin found debris from
several of that star carrier's escort ships, but never any sign of the star
carrier itself, or of even a single one of the Kristang ships. At the time, the
Thuranin accused the Kristang of having stolen their star carrier, while the
Kristang accused their patrons of destroying an entire Kristang heavy
battlegroup. According to the databanks I downloaded from both the Thuranin and
Kristang, neither side admits to knowing what happened."

"Or they do know, and they're not stupid enough
to put it in a database aboard a ship."

"True, although in this case, I suspect the
Thuranin truly do not know what happened to that ship. I suspect nefarious
action by the Kristang, they would gladly throw away a battlegroup of their own
crappy ships, in order to capture a Thuranin starship with an advanced jump
drive. That missing ship is close enough to the 
Dutchman
, especially
with modifications that would have inevitably been made in the past seventeen
years, that we could easily pass for that ship. The Thuranin identify their
ships by quantum fluctuations embedded in the jump drive fields, each ship is
unique. I could adjust our drive coils to mimic the missing ship's
signature."

I gave a big thumb's up, knowing Skippy could see
that. "That would be excellent. Not only do we avoid the Thuranin
suspecting humans stole their ship, we may sow distrust between the Thuranin
and the Kristang."

Skippy laughed. "Oh, boo hoo. Gosh, it would be
just awful for the lizards and little green men to get any more hateful of each
other."

"Yeah, keep in mind, we'd rather no one gets a
good look at the 
Dutchman
, you keep using your magic to make people out
there think we're a Jeraptha ship."

"Understood. Hey, between us, we came up with a
good idea. Mostly me, of course."

As a monkey, I wasn't going to argue with him.
"Of course."

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWELVE

 

Our investigation of the sixth potential site for an
Elder base started well enough. To get there from the fifth site, we didn't
need Skippy to wake up a dormant wormhole, or create a new connection for an
active wormhole. We only needed to make normal transits through two regular,
established wormholes, and then jump for about five days to another star system
that was nothing special. This star system was not centered on yet another
boring red dwarf star, this one was a yellow dwarf star, which I assumed meant
it was small. It was upsetting to learn from Skippy, and our science team, that
our own home star, The Sun, was itself classified a yellow dwarf. That didn't
seem right to me. I remember being in school, I think it was the third grade,
seeing a model of our solar system, where the Earth was the size of a ping pong
ball, and the Sun was a basketball. And I remember my teacher Ms. Carmichael,
who I had a huge crush on and still do, telling us that if the model was to
scale, the Sun would be over a million times the size of the Earth! That blew
my little third-grade mind. To our astrophysics team, however, our Sun was
nothing special in the galaxy, a fact they assured me was very good for
humanity, because it meant our Sun provided an environment for life to
flourish, while the Sun was still young enough to be burning hydrogen instead
of helium. Or something like that, I still felt they were dissing our home
star. When I hear 'burning hydrogen', I think of the Hindenburg. That's not
good.

This particular yellow dwarf star we investigated was
about seven percent larger than our sun, but slightly cooler, it was older and,
according to Skippy and our science team, closer to the end of its life, having
burned a lot of its hydrogen supply. Our science team couldn't decide what they
were more excited about, the possibility of recovering Elder artifacts, or
getting a close look at an older G-type star with the 
Flying
 
Dutchman's

sophisticated sensors.

We followed our now-routine procedure; the 
Dutchman

jumped to the edge of the star system, and the 
Flower
 jumped in to recon
gas giant moons. Although this star system could have supported life, it had
only two lifeless rocky inner planets, neither of which orbited in the
Goldilocks zone. There were three gas giants, the 
Flower
 was first going
to check the biggest one, a planet thirty percent more massive than Jupiter. If
there was no Elder site on a moon around the largest planet, the 
Flower

would return to check in with us, then proceed to investigate the other two gas
giants.

The 
Flower
 returned exactly on time, to report
excitedly they had detected a possible Elder facility on a small moon, and no
sign the place had been ransacked already. Skippy figured someone, at some
time, must have checked out the system, because it had a G-type star, but once
it was determined the system had no habitable planets, no one had bothered to
look any closer. This time, I was hoping, we would hit the jackpot.

The 
Flower
 docked again, we waited for her crew
to rejoin us while Skippy analyzed that ship's sensor data. "Looks good,
Skippy?" I asked.

"It's hard to tell anything, with that ship's
crappy Kristang sensors," he complained. When we'd taken the frigate, when
we had captured an alien 
starship
, I'd thought that was the most awesome
thing that could ever happen. Since then, Skippy had explained that the 
Flower

had been purchased third-hand by the White Wind clan, that her sensors were in
bad condition, long obsolete even by Kristang standards, and the ship overall
had been poorly maintained in the past decade. "The stupid scanners keep
drifting out of calibration, I can barely tell whether I'm looking at a moon or
empty space."

"The sensors again, yup, I hear you." Man, I
was tired of listening to Skippy complain about the equipment he had to work
with. "Did they find a potential Elder site, or not?"

"With this sensor data, it could be an Elder
science facility, or it could be an alien car wash, I can't tell for
sure."

"Fine, we'll know when we take the 
Dutchman

in. Any sign of other ships?"

"No. Again, it's hard to tell anything, the 
Flower

is practically blind. It doesn't help that this planet has an extremely
powerful magnetic field, there is so much noise in the sensor data that the
Thuranin could hide a whole stealthed fleet there, and the 
Flower

wouldn't have seen it."

"Colonel Chang?" I asked, he had returned
from commanding the frigate and was standing beside me.

Chang knew Skippy's low opinion of the frigate.
"We didn't detect any threats. I recommend we jump in with the 
Dutchman
."

"Skippy?" I asked.

The shiny beer can sighed. "Yeah, sure, I agree,
why not? We can always jump back out."

He was going to regret saying that.

We all were.

 

Skippy programmed a jump that took us within easy
dropship range from the Elder site; close enough for the 
Dutchman's

sensors to thoroughly scan the site, far enough way that the moon's gravity
wouldn't affect a jump away. "Jump successful," Desai reported, then
turned to look at me. "We emerged within forty meters of the intended
target," she said and shook her head in amazement.  Forty meters! Our best
human-programmed jump was fifty thousand kilometers off target. Our scientists
said the theoretical best that was possible was nine thousand kilometers, that
some kind of quantum uncertainty made it impossible to get any closer, the laws
of physics didn't provide any way to be more accurate. Yet Skippy always got us
within a hundred meters, usually much closer. He said quantum mechanics was
uncertain only if you took into account one layer of spacetime, another thing
that had our science team scratching their heads.

"Congratulations, Skippy, another great
jump," I said.

"Yeah, yeah, I'm amazing the monkeys yet again.
I'll take a bow later. Scanning now. By the way, the jump accuracy was thirty
seven meters, not forty. Hmm, there is really an unusual level of interference
from the magnetic- NO! Pilot get us out of here nownownow!!"

Desai didn't hesitate, her finger had already been
poised on the button to jump away. On the main display I saw the symbol for a
jump point forming, a split second from the ship being pulled into the jump
wormhole it was generating.

Skippy shouted again, "Belay tha-"

Too late. The 
Dutchman
 jumped. Or tried to. The
whole ship vibrated so badly, it felt like my teeth were going to shake loose.
There was a screeching, screaming, tearing sound like the ship was being torn
apart. The lights and displays flickered, the deck dropped away from me then
slammed me back in the chair, as the artificial gravity cut out and came back
on. There were so many warning symbols flashing on the displays it wasn't worth
me trying to read them, and nothing we could do about it that Skippy wasn't
already taking care of. To my uneducated eyes, instead of jumping far outside
the system we had only done a microjump, the moon we intended to investigate
was still on the corner of the display. "Skippy, what happened?" I
asked, to my credit my voice was calm and only loud enough to be heard over
other people shouting, alarms beeping, and the ship's structure flexing and
groaning with terrifying noises. In the background was the battle stations
alarm from 
Star Trek
, which I had forgotten Sergeant Adams had
programmed into the ship’s systems.

"A Thuranin destroyer squadron, five ships and we
jumped in close to them, they got us partly caught in a damping field. Our
attempted jump blew seventeen percent of our drive coils, it would have been
worse but I cut power as we got pulled into the wormhole, the wormhole was
collapsing on us anyway. We should jump again as soon as possible," as he
spoke I noticed the main display showed we had a sixty three percent charge in
the jump drive capacitors, "there will be a delay as I take the burned-out
coils offline and recalibrate the drive."

"How long?"

"I estima- uh, oh, they found us again, two
destroyers just jumped in. They're targeting us with maser beams. And six
missiles."

"Defensive systems on full auto!" I ordered
to the crew in the CIC. The Thuranin computer system that Skippy had upgraded
would have to protect us from the inbound missiles, no way could any human
react fast enough to hit a missile. "Pilot, you know what to do."

"Aye aye," Desai said tightly from the
lefthand seat. As she went to full thrust on the ship's normal-space engines to
dodge the destroyers' particle beams, the ship rocked.

"Particle beam hit." Skippy reported flatly,
as the ship rocked again, harder this time. "Another hit. Shields
compensating."

"Should we shoot back?" I asked. The answer
seemed obvious, I wanted to check with Skippy anyway.

"Affirmative, it will keep those destroyers from
getting closer. The three other destroyers have jumped in, we're surrounded.
They're firing weapons."

"Weapons free," I ordered, and the display
showed our particle beam cannons firing back. "How soon can we jump?"

"Not soon enough, they're projecting a damping
field again," Skippy said. "We're not ready but we don't have a
choice, we need to get out of here before that damping field reaches full
strength. Jump option Echo."

Echo. That was a microjump, Skippy must not have
confidence the ship could handle a bigger distance. That was bad. Those
destroyers would be right on top of us again. "Pilot,” I ordered, “engage
jump option Echo."

 

This wasn't a fight against low-tech Kristang ships,
this was the 
Dutchman
 against equivalent technology, against true
warships designed to be in combat. Our star carrier by contrast was a bus, a
high-tech bus but a bus anyway.

It was a nightmare. We jumped and jumped again, trying
to get away. It wasn't working, the destroyers always found us quickly,
sometimes only two, sometimes all five surrounded us and pounded our shields.
Desai did her best to keep the enemy guessing where we were and Skippy said she
was doing a good job, the problem was that the enemy had multiple, data-linked
sensor platforms, and we couldn't dodge their particle beams for more than a
couple seconds before they adjusted aim and hit us again. Our automatic
defenses were knocking missiles out of the sky left and right, each volley of
missiles got closer and closer to us, as our sensors were degraded by flashback
from particle beams impacting our shields.

It wasn't working, with each jump we blew more drive
coils, even when the Thuranin weren't able to get a damping field established,
because Skippy never had time to recalibrate the jump drive, and every time we
lost drive coils the system fell further out of calibration.

It wasn't working, we weren't getting out of this one.
The crew knew it; I could see it on their faces. Shields were strained to the
limit, particle beams were partially bleeding through, they were targeting the
aft engineering section of the ship to hit our reactors and jump drive coils.
Twenty one minutes into the running battle, we lost our first reactor, it was
damaged and Skippy had to shut it down. With that reactor gone, the other five
struggled to power the stealth field, the shields, the particle beams and to
recharge the jump drive capacitors. Without asking me, Skippy had dropped
artificial gravity to one third power and shut down all nonessential systems.

It wasn't working.

The 
Flying Dutchman
 shuddered again, with
sounds of groaning and the terrifying shriek of metal composites being torn
apart. The displays on the bridge flickered, and the air was filled with alarm
bells and klaxons from almost every system. "Skippy! Get us out of-"

The ship shook violently again. "Direct hit on
Number Four reactor," Skippy announced calmly, "reactor has lost
containment. I am preparing it for ejection. Ejection system is offline. Pilot,
portside thrusters full emergency thrust on my mark."

"Ready," Desai acknowledged in as calm a
voice as she could manage.

"Mark. Go!" Skippy shouted.

Whatever they were doing, it was more than the ship's
already stressed artificial gravity and inertial compensation systems could
handle, normally ship maneuvers were not felt at all by the crew. This time, I
lurched in the command chair and had to hang on, as the ship was flung to the
right. There was a shudder, actually a wave of ripples traveling along the
ship's spine, accompanied by a deep harmonic groaning. No ship should ever make
a sound like that.

"Ah, damn it. Reactor Four is away, it impacted
Reactor Two on the way out, shutting down Two now." Skippy's voice had a
touch of strain to it. "Missiles inbound. Diverting all remaining power to
jump drive capacitors. Hang on, this is going to be close."

The main display indicated the jump drive was at a 38%
charge, Skippy had told us that with the 
Dutchman
 trapped inside the
Thuranin destroyer squadron's damping field, we needed a 42% charge for even a
short jump, and that still carried a severe risk of rupturing the drive. If
that happened, we would never know it, we'd simply be dead between one
picosecond and another.

The missile symbols on the display, seven of them,
were coming in fast. Two of the symbols disappeared as I watched, destroyed by
our ship's point defense particle beams. The other five missiles continued
toward us, fast, fuzzing our sensors with their stealth fields and weaving as
they bored in. One more missile destroyed. Four still moving fast.

Jump drive at 40%.

Too close.

I turned the knob to release the plastic cover over
the self-destruct button, and turned to look through the glass wall into the
CIC compartment. "Colonel Chang."

He nodded, and I saw him flip back the cover to the
other self-destruct button, the confirmation. "Sir." He looked me
straight in the eye, and saluted.

I returned the salute. "Colonel Chang, we have
been down a long, strange road together. It's been an honor serving with
you." My left thumb hovered over the self-destruct button. The ship was
dying anyway. This was my fault. How the hell had I gotten us into this mess?

The ship rocked again from another sizzling particle
beam hit.

"Skippy," I said, "I'm sorry. Good luck
to-"

Skippy interrupted me. "Jump option Delta, do it
now."

Jump drive still at only 40%, I didn't argue.
"Pilot, engage jump option Delta."

 

Never before had I seen or felt a jump. Something had
gone very, very wrong with this jump, the ship seemed to ripple and distort in
my vision, it almost went transparent for a split second, and I had a flash of
stomach-wrenching nausea. In the CIC, I could see one guy wiping his mouth
after puking on the console. He hadn't lost focus for a moment.

"Skippy, what the hell was that?"

"I calculated at least one of those missiles was
going to slip through our defenses, and our shields can't make a direct hit, so
we jumped early. And I distorted spacetime to throw us off our original
emergence point, that was, I'll leave out the details, it was, let's just say
it was very bad for the jump drive. The good news is the Thuranin will be
delayed finding us again. I think."

"Long enough to recalibrate the jump drive, so we
can get out of here for real?"

"No, long enough for plan B. Joe, I need you to
come get me and bring me to the 
Flower
, don't argue, we can talk along
the way. Let's go."

Pulling the latch on the seat belt open, I dashed
around the chair, and barely paused long enough to tell Chang he had the conn,
before I ran into the corridor and bounced off the opposite wall. The low
gravity made me clumsy, there were more bumps and scrapes before I reached the
escape pod where we kept Skippy. He was sitting right where I'd left him, of
course, being unable to move on his own. We kept Skippy there so that, if we
had to self-destruct the ship, he would have a chance to get away before the
nuke exploded. Hopefully some enemy ship would be curious enough to take the
escape pod aboard their ship. In addition to Skippy, the escape pod held the
communications node we'd taken from the Kristang research base, the comm node
was there as bait. Any ship scanning the escape pod would identify the comm
node as a valuable Elder device, even if they didn't know what Skippy truly
was. "Hi, Skippy," I said as I pulled him out of the crude receptacle
we'd built for him. Although Skippy could talk with me, and see me, anywhere on
the ship, I made a point to stop by the escape pod once a day to check on him.
he made jokes about a monkey smelling up the escape pod, but I think he
appreciated my effort. "What's the plan?" I asked as I tucked him
under one arm like a football and ran back down the corridor to the tram that
ran down the 
Dutchman's
 spine.

"The plan is," he explained as I stepped
into the tram and held on tightly, "you get me into the 
Flower
 and
set the navigation system and jump drive on a timer, then you get back
here."

"Wha-whoa." The tram took off at jackrabbit
speed, I didn't know it could move that fast. "Ow!" I lost my grip on
the handrail, and fell back to whack my head on the door frame, hard enough to
draw blood. "Crap, Skippy, warn me when you do something like that. You
want to get further away before I blow up the 
Dutchman
?"

"No, dumdum, I'm trying to avoid you having to
blow up your ship at all. You monkeys are dumb as a stump, and you smell bad
but I've become fond of you, damn it, now that I've got you out here I feel
responsible for you, like a smelly stray dog you find on the side of a road.
You can't leave it there, and then you're stuck with it."

"How is you running away supposed to help us,
genius? Without you with us, we'll never get the jump drive recalibrated, and
that destroyer squadron will be on us again in a heartbeat."

"Oh yee of little faith, Joe, you should be
ashamed of yourself. I loaded a submind in the Thuranin computer to recalibrate
the jump drive and run the ship's systems, the submind is almost as dumb as
you, because I wasn't able to squeeze anything useful into the crappy Thuranin
memory banks. It'll be good enough for what you need. Joe, if this works, the
Thuranin will chase the 
Flower
, and the 
Flying
 
Dutchman

has at least a chance to escape." The tram lurched to a stop and the door
slid open. "Get in the elevator and hang on, it's going to be a fast
ride."

"How do you figure we can get away?"

"Simple Skippy magic. I'll program the 
Flower's

autopilot to detach, fly away at maximum burn and perform a series of jumps.
You set the autopilot on a timer for me, then you get back aboard the 
Dutchman
.
We'll jump at the same time, in different directions, and just before you jump
away, I'll distort spacetime to throw you much further away than your drive can
pull you with those degraded coils. The distortion will also make it more
difficult for the Thuranin to detect the other end of your jump point. You've
seen me distort spacetime before, what you haven't seen is that I can distort
the fabric of space much more severely if I'm not inside the distortion field,
so when I do it from outside the 
Dutchman
, the effect will be magnified.
Also, I will modify the 
Flower's
 jump signature to match the 
Dutchman,

and make my outbound jump point stay open longer than usual, the Thuranin will
likely detect that first, and hopefully follow me instead of you. Joe, I'm not
going to lie, the odds are against you escaping from the Thuranin without me,
that's still better than you blowing up the ship."

The elevator was slowing and it approached the
platform where the 
Flower
 rested, I assumed Skippy was already getting
the frigate warmed up for flight. "Any chance is better than zero chance.
What's going to happen to you?"

"I expect the Thuranin will trap the 
Flower

in a damping field after a few jumps, and either they'll blow up the ship, or
it will be destroyed by trying to jump inside the field."

"That's no good, Skippy." He needed to work
on his planning. "You'll survive, sure, to, what, drift in space
forever?" The elevator stopped, the door opened and I stepped aboard the 
Flower
.

"Unless the Thuranin take time to scan the debris
field and find me, and decide to take me aboard. It's not any worse than me
getting flung away in an escape pod, right before you nuke the 
Dutchman
,
so although it sucks, there's really no additional downside for me."

I stopped walking. "Yeah there is. Your plan
sucks, Skippy." I turned around set him down on the floor of the elevator.
Although when the elevator moved, he was going to fall on his side and roll
around like a beer can, he would be safe.

"What are you doing, you dumb ape, we don't have
time for this!" Skippy shouted.

"What I'm doing is plan C. I will stay aboard the

Flower
 and let the Thuranin chase me, you do the rest of the stuff you
said; distorting the wormhole, making the 
Flower's
 drive signature look
like the 
Dutchman'
s, all that. You get my crew away from here." I
knew enough of the 
Flower's
 flight control systems to manage a short
flight with pre-programmed jumps, and a short flight was all it was going to
be.

"Plan C is a stupid plan! Here's how you
automatically know it's stupid; a monkey thought of it."

"Skippy," I took a deep breath to collect my
thoughts, we didn't have a lot of time. "I'm not going to let you drift in
space until the end of time, you've had enough loneliness for a thousand
lifetimes. We humans owe you, big time, more than we can ever repay. And, damn
it you little shithead, you're my, I can't believe I'm saying this, you're my
friend." I hit the button to send the elevator back down.

"Wait!" The elevator door froze halfway
closed. "Wait wait! Joe, you're going to do this, for me?"

"Somebody has to, Skippy, and I'm the one here
right now." I hit the button again and the door slid an inch more toward
closing. "Take care of my ship."

"Wait! Joe, I," his voice faded. "You
know my memories aren't complete. I 
know
 they're not complete. Maybe
they're not even real. But, I'm pretty sure that I never had a friend before.
Never thought my first real friend would be a freakin’ monkey," he
finished with a disgusted grumble. "No, you know what? To hell with this.
SCREW! THIS!” His voice was loud enough to hurt my ears. “Bring me back to the 
Dutchman's

bridge, I'm going to find us a way out of this. Time for me to use this
ginormous damn brain I have. Joe, come on, move, I'm going silent for a bit.
Please trust me."

 

Whatever Skippy was doing in there, and in whatever
other spacetimes he occupied, the beer can was growing uncomfortably warm to
the touch, I had to shift him from one hand to the other as I carried him back
to the bridge

Everyone stared at me in shock. With a glance, I took
in what I needed to know of our status; the jump drive held only a twenty eight
percent charge, the process of calibrating the remaining jump drive coils was
only thirty one percent complete, but there were no other ships in detection
range.

"What happened?" Chang asked, while
unbuckling from the command chair.

"Skippy has a new plan. Right, Skippy?" I
set him in the receptacle we'd attached to the floor of the bridge, in a
cramped corner. "A better plan," I said as I buckled into the command
chair. "Skippy? Skippy? Come on, Skippy." 

"I didn't say it was a better plan. It's a
different plan. It's too late now for my original plan, thanks to you,
Joe."

“What was Mr. Skippy’s original plan?” Chang demanded.
He was standing next to the command chair, someone else had taken his station
in the CIC.

“I was going to heroically sacrifice myself for you
lesser beings," Skippy explained. "Joe stopped me, because I would be
an incalculable loss to the galaxy.”

“Yeah, that’s why,” I snorted. “That, and the fact it
was a stupid plan.”

“It wasn’t stupid! You had a twelve percent chance to
escape!”

“Is that twelve, Skippy, or ‘meh’ twelve?”

“Eleven point five six four nine two, roughly. Close
enough. Ok, that may have been somewhat optimistic. But at least seven percent,
for sure.”

"Yeah, I figured that. Tell you your new genius
plan."

"That's the thing, Joe, I don't have a genius
plan. I searched for records of ships that had escaped from similar situations,
and there were none. Then I used my incredible brainpower to dream up a genius
plan. And I got nothing. Nothing! No matter how I approached the situation, no
matter how many variables I plugged in, I couldn't come up with any smart way
out of this. So, I realized what we need is a stupid plan. And I have a stupid
plan. Joe, even a monkey will think this plan is stupid. If this plan works,
the 
Dutchman
 can escape."

“And if it doesn’t work?”

“The 
Dutchman
 will be incinerated.”

“That’s not great.”

“Hey, if this plan fails, you monkeys will simply be
dead. I’ll be trapped in the core of a dying star for trillions and trillions
of years.”

“Oh, hey, bonus. Why didn’t you say that first? Sign
me up. What are the odds of this plan succeeding?”

“Meh, probably somewhere south of fifty-fifty, maybe?
I truly do not know. Nothing this stupid has ever been tried before in this
galaxy. It’s kind of exciting.”

“This stupid? Like, rednecks-on-TV stupid?” I asked.

"Nothing is as stupid as that, Joe, but for an AI
like me, this approaches hold-my-beer-watch-this stupid.”

I shook my head. “Skippy, you need to do a better job
selling your ideas.”

“Selling? Think about this, Joe, this could be your
one big chance to achieve Florida man status.”

“Florida?” I asked, puzzled, “I’m from Maine,
dumbass.”

“No,” he said with an exasperated sigh, “I mean the
classic Florida Man, like in the headlines. You know, ‘Florida man eaten by pet
alligator’, or “Florida man, drunk, crashes car into police station’, or
‘Florida man, naked, runs-” 

“We get the idea, Skippy. Fine, what are our odds
without this plan?”

“Zero. That’s not a ’meh’ zero, it is zee-roh, Joe. By
my estimate, we have at most one minute before the first Thuranin ship jumps in
and detects us."

The display told me the jump engines now had barely a
thirty percent charge. "Fine, great. Explain your pla-"

"Enemy ship jumped in!" Chang shouted. An
angry triangle symbol was now on the display, far enough away that we should be
able to dodge most of its particle beam shots, too close for comfort.

"We jump away now, Skippy?" I asked
anxiously. Maybe I should have left him in the elevator and taken the 
Flower

out myself as a decoy.

"No, Joe, jumping away now would be the smart
thing to do. The smart thing to do has a zero chance of success, as I
explained. Trust me, you will be awed by my stupidity."

 

We started Skippy's stupid plan with waiting another
thirty five seconds, until three of the Thuranin destroyers jumped in, locked
onto us with their sensor fields, and began firing missiles and particle beams.
We waited, even though we could have managed a short jump away, with a thirty
percent jump engine charge. We almost cut it too close, particle beams knocked
back our shields, and a missile got so close that fragments of its warhead hit
one of our remaining functional reactors, and that reactor became less
functional. Like, not at all.

When we finally did jump away, the word 'jump' was
accurate but 'away' was not. A key stupidity in Skippy's stupid plan was
jumping toward, not away from the star. By toward, I mean we jumped in close.
Close enough that, if I could live on a star, I could see my house. Close
enough that, deep as we now were in the star's gravity well, jumping back out
would be difficult, even for a ship with a full charge, a healthy set of coils,
and a calibrated jump system. We didn't have any of those three critical
assets. Jumping in close to the star, close enough that we needed our shields
just to keep the ship from being fried, wasn't stupid enough for Skippy. As
soon as we emerged from the jump point, we set course straight for the star and
kicked the ship's tail, accelerated at maximum thrust, deeper into the gravity
well. This was Skippy's hold-my-beer-watch-this moment.

The whole maneuver was sufficiently stupid that when
the Thuranin destroyers jumped in behind us, they hesitated to follow us in.
For a minute, they spread out and tried to hit us from long distance. There was
so much interference from the star's hellish magnetic field that their own
networked sensor fields couldn't target us. One of the little green men must
have made a decision after their particle beams all missed, and their missiles
went off course, because the destroyers turned at the same time and burned hard
in after us.

Here's the thing; star carriers can jump long
distances, and jump again and again. That makes star carriers seem fast. They
are not fast. What a star carrier can do is keep going, long after other ships
have run out of charge or burned out their jump drive coils. In normal space, a
star carrier handles like a big cruise ship, and the destroyers were like
speedboats. A cruise ship can cross an ocean and leave any speedboats far
behind after a while; over any short distance, a speedboat will run rings
around a cruise ship. What this means is those destroyers gained on us quickly.
Very quickly. To see how quickly they were closing the distance, I didn't need
to look at the rapidly decreasing 'Range to Target' section of the main bridge
display, I only needed to watch the triangle symbols of those five warships.
Those triangles were swiftly moving across the display as I watched. In front
of us on the display was the star, so close that the surface of the star was a
straight line, not a curve at all. "Uh, Skippy, those ships are going to
be on top of us in," now I did check the Estimated Time to Closure section
of the display, "seven minutes. We can't jump away this close to a star,
and those destroyers are going to pound us to dust. If this is the stupid part
of your plan, I don't want to see any more."

"Joe, I promise, you ain't see stupid yet. Watch
this."

In front of us on the display, the surface of the star
was no longer a straight line, it had a distinct indent to the surface, like an
invisible knife was pushing into it. The dent widened and grew deeper, so deep
the display had to zoom outward. Holy shit, he was making a giant hole in the
star. "I'm distorting spacetime," Skippy explained, "when I
release the effect, that hole in the star is going to collapse and cause a
massive solar flare. Like, a historic, holy-shit size solar flare. One way or
the other, this will be majorly interesting."

"A solar flare that will incinerate the 
Dutchman
?"
The Thuranin destroyer squadron had seen the danger, they had turned around and
were now burning at maximum thrust to get away from the star.

"Mmm, shmaybe. The really stupid part starts now.
No one has ever tried this before, so hang on."

Skippy released the spacetime distortion of the star.
On the display, the surface of the star rippled as it filled in the gap, then
the surface erupted outward. Toward us. Fast. 

"Skippy!" I shouted. The ship rocked.

"The star is collapsing; those are gravity waves
hitting us at lightspeed. Jump option Zulu!" Skippy shouted back.
"Now!"

How the hell were we supposed to jump so deep in a
gravity well? The display showed the front edge of the enormous solar flare had
almost engulfed us. There was no time to argue. "Pilot! Engage jump option
Zulu," I ordered in as calm a voice as I could manage. If this didn't
work, at least we wouldn't need nukes to vaporize any trace of evidence that
humans were roaming the galaxy.

In front of me, Desai pressed the button to initiate
the selected jump. Whatever Skippy was doing, the jump drive didn't like it,
the whole ship flickered in and out of existence in my vision and shook
violently. Displays went dark and some exploded, sending showers of sparks
cascading through the bridge and CIC. The artificial gravity clicked off, then
on heavily, then off again. I was flung around in the chair so viciously it
seemed my neck would snap. There was a terribly deep wailing, moaning sound
that grew louder and louder until my ears hurt, the lights went out-

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTEEN

 

Regaining consciousness, for me, was the sort of thing
where you fall into bed outrageously drunk, the bed starts spinning and you
snap awake because you're going to hurl the contents of your stomach onto the
bed. Oh, right, sure, that's never happened to you? Liar. In this case, I awoke
while I was puking into my own lap, or trying to, some chunks hung briefly in
the air as the artificial gravity was off, then on, then off again. The
intermittent zero gee was making my stomach flutter, I clamped my mouth shut so
if I puked again, I wouldn't spew it all over the bridge. And a headache, my
head throbbed so bad it felt like my eyeballs would explode.
"Skippy," I heard myself saying in a strangled voice. "Sitrep,"
was all I could manage to say at that moment.

"We have jumped past the edge of the star system.
All five Thuranin destroyers were engulfed by the solar flare, there are no
ships pursuing us currently. Artificial gravity has stabilized temporarily.
There are numerous injuries to the crew, nothing serious." He didn't
explain his definition of a 'serious' injury. "Damage to the ship is
substantial."

"How bad is it?" I was afraid to hear the
answer.

"Extremely, catastrophically bad. Shut up and let
me talk for a minute." Skippy's voice was flat, none of the usual
snarkiness. "Only reactors One and Five are online, I have initiated an
emergency shut down of reactor Five because it's losing containment. As it is,
the leak will result in additional damage to reactor Three, which is already
shut down. Reactor One has a slight loss of containment, the major problem with
One is that it has almost completely lost cooling capacity, temperatures are in
the red and if they continue to increase, and they will, there will be a
catastrophic explosion that could destroy the aft part of the ship, including
the remaining jump drives. Reactor One's coolant pump is making a sound like if
you put a pack of hyenas in a blender, only louder. Therefore, I am shutting
down reactor One also."

"The problem is a pump?" Seemed simple to
me. "Can you fix it?"

"I called the 1-800 help line for the pump
manufacturer, they transferred me to some guy named 'Bob' in Malaysia, the
monsoon rain was pounding on his roof so bad I could barely hear him. He asked
me to verify the pump was plugged in, then he suggested I turn it off, and back
on again. That didn't help. Also, I'm pretty sure 'Bob' is not his real name.
Joe, for crying out loud, if I could fix the pump, don't you think I would have
done it already? The pump isn't the only problem, the whole cooling system got
peppered with shrapnel from a near-miss."

"The ship will completely lose pow-" I
started to ask.

"I requested you to shut up while I'm talking,
like that was ever going to happen." He sounded tired. "Correct,
after the last two reactors shut down, the ship will have only backup power
from the capacitors. There is enough charge in the jump drive coils for one
more moderate jump, unfortunately such a jump will not get us to the next
closest other star system, and we clearly can't go back where we were. I expect
the Thuranin will detect our current position within two hours, the gamma ray
burst when we jumped in could not be masked, and as we are on the periphery of
their star system, this area is highly likely to be within their sensor
coverage. The Thuranin now know one of their own star carriers is hostile, they
will be calling in reinforcements. Colonel, you may now speak."

"The situation can't be entirely hopeless, or you
wouldn't bother shutting down the reactors. What are our options?" By
options, I meant other than engaging the self-destruct.

"We have one option, two if you include
self-destructing the ship. We use the remaining charge in the jump drive to
leave this position as soon as possible, I am running a diagnostic on the jump
drive coils now, to avoid rupturing the drive during a jump. Our jumps while we
were within the dampening field, and then within my warpage of spacetime,
caused severe damage to the drive coils, only twenty seven percent of the drive
coils can be trusted to function properly at this point."

"Jumping to the middle of interstellar space,
with all the reactors dead and the capacitors draining, sounds like going from
the fire into the frying pan, we're dead either way. Can the reactors be
fixed?"

"The short answer is no. Not with the equipment
onboard. Star carriers travel with a host of support vessels, and are not
designed to sustain themselves for long-term operations. Spare parts, and the
ability to manufacture replacement parts, are in short supply. The long answer
is, shmaybe."

"Shmaybe?" I asked, surprised. This was the
old Skippy I knew.

"Something short of a confident maybe. Given
enough time, and raw materials, the ship might be restored to functioning. I
have a plan. You are not going to like it."

Skippy was right. I didn't like it. I also didn't have
a choice. Or a better idea.

 

Not having anything useful to do on the bridge, in a
ship with no power, I helped clean up the mess, talked to the crew briefly on
the intercom, and headed off to the sick bay. Not surprisingly, none of the
special forces were there, although the injury report Skippy loaded onto my
iPad listed several broken bones, concussions and soft tissue injuries like
dislocated shoulders among our SpecOps super soldiers. They were taking care of
each other, and remaining alert, as if they needed to be ready to repel
boarders or some crazy stuff like that, they would report to the sickbay when I
gave them an all clear signal. Maybe they simply needed to feel useful, I could
understand that, I felt pretty useless myself at that moment. Chang had the
conn, such that it was, and the duty crew in the CIC was monitoring our
malfunctioning sensor field in case the Thuranin had an extra ship out there
somewhere. Right now, even a Kristang dropship could have shot holes in us.

There were three of the science team in sickbay; one
wrist sprain, one broken nose and bloody forehead combination, plus one broken
leg. Doctor Skippy the mad scientist was taking care of them with his
scary-looking robots, the science team heard my brief status report over the
intercom and naturally had many questions, I had few answers. What I should
have done is walk around the ship reassuring people. Instead, I took a brief
break to splash water on my face and flush the puke taste out of my mouth.

In the cramped Thuranin bathroom, kneeling on the
floor to reach the sink, I addressed Skippy, trying to talk to him the way I
normally did, keep the fear out of my voice. "All right, Skippy, I have to
give you props, even your stupid plans work great."

"Sure, sure, that's what happened. I'm a freakin'
genius."

My Spidey sense tingled. He wasn't fooling me for a
second. "You lying little jerk. Truth, Skippy. The truth shall set you
free."

"I never understood that expression. Lying is so
much easier, Joe."

"Now, Skippy."

"Well, heh, heh, here's the thing," he said,
in his nervous tone that was the reason he could never successfully lie to me.
"My original stupid plan was truly pure genius. The Thuranin would never
have suspected us to try anything that stupid. After I created that solar flare,
much bigger even than I had hoped, by the way, I didn't have much data on that
star and I had to estimate the composition of its photosphere-"

"Get to the point, please, Skippy." My
headache was killing me.

"After I triggered the solar flare, my plan was
to distort spacetime in reverse, to flatten it enough right around the ship
that we could jump away. I knew the Thuranin ships had no chance to escape, the
gravity waves propagated at the speed of light, and those ships were too deep
in the gravity well to jump away. The problem was, I'd never before flattened
spacetime to that extent so deep in a gravity well, it was theoretically
possible, however I didn't have the math for it. I had to guess, go in on blind
faith, that was the stupid part."

"Ok, stupid, but, hey, it worked. We're alive.
Mostly."

"You want the truth, Joe? It didn't work, not
entirely, not the way I planned it." Skippy admitted sadly. "The
flattening spacetime part, I mean. I couldn't make it hold long enough to get
the ship all the way through the jump, the gravity waves made spacetime
resonate in a way I couldn't predict, and I didn't have time to create a model
and test it. I failed, I totally failed."

"Then how are we still alive?"

"You monkeys would describe it as luck. The
gravity waves on this end of the wormhole caused a resonance in spacetime that
made the wormhole fail as we entered it, the presence of the ship inside the
wormhole made the resonance increase exponentially. The laws of physics here
are an annoying pain most of the time, but in this case they saved our asses.
Because the ship had already emerged from the far end of the wormhole before we
entered it on the near end, it would have violated causality for the ship to be
destroyed while in transit. The universe doesn't allow causality to be messed
with in that way, so it collapsed all the probabilities, except for the
extremely unlikely one where we somehow survived the transit and emerged safely
on the far end. It's kind of like sending a message via internet protocol, the
message gets chopped up into bits that take different routes to the
destination, then it is reassembled. That's why you were nauseous and now have
a headache, your body was ripped apart at the subatomic level and reassembled
many times. What you experienced, the ship seeming to blink in and out of
existence, actually happened; every time the ship was destroyed in transit, the
universe hit the reset button and restored us to existence. Because it had
to."

I shook my head in stunned disbelief. "Wait, we died?
Except we didn't?"

"Correct. Because we hadn't died on the far end
of the wormhole, we couldn't die on the near end, or in transit."

"Whoa."

"Whoa indeed. Joe, this is a tiny, tiny glimpse
into how the universe truly works."

"Awesome! We can figure out the rest from here,
huh?"

"Mmm, that would be a resounding no. Let me give
you an example; a dog sees you bring a new bag of kibble into the house. The
dog may see you getting the bag of kibble out of the car. You can even take the
dog to the pet store with you, and the dog can see you take the bag of kibble
off the shelf there. That does not mean the dog grasps the concept of where
kibble really comes from. Or the concept of, well, concepts."

"Thank you for the big vote of confidence in us
monkeys."

"I'm being realistic here, Joe. Your smartest
theoretical physicists are still only staring at the garage door, thinking that
is the magical source of endless kibble."

I wasn't going to argue with an AI about the merits of
monkey brain power. "Let's keep this luck part between us, agreed? The
crew needs to have confidence in you, misplaced as it is." I looked at
myself in the mirror, a mirror we humans had installed, since Thuranin cyborgs
had thought such things were foolish. Most of the vomit was off my uniform, or
mashed enough into the digital camo pattern that it looked as if it belonged
there. My face looked like hell. I needed sleep. As if that was going to happen
any time soon. Unbelievable, I was alive only because the future me on the
other end of the wormhole hadn’t died. A thought occurred to me. "Wait.
What did you say about the version of the 
Dutchman
 that came out of the
wormhole? What do you mean 'version'?" 

"Hmm. That's not something I can tell to monkeys.
Shouldn't have mentioned it."

"Fine. I got a whopping headache anyway. What's
next?"

 

We made one last jump using remaining power in the
jump drive capacitors. Then we jumped again, and again, and again. Power for
the jumps, and almost everything else aboard the 
Dutchman
, came directly
from Skippy; he pulled power from some other spacetime or from quantum bubbles
or from magical fairy dust or some crazy shit like that. I didn't understand it
and our science team, despite nodding their heads in deep thought, had no
freakin' clue what Skippy was doing either. The problem with Skippy powering
the ship is, whatever source he pulled power from was enormous, like a small
star, and he wasn't able to regulate the power flow very well, he wasn't
designed to do that. The result of him pulling in way too much power, was we
kept blowing systems all over the ship. Relays burned out, capacitors melted,
anything related to electricity had a short life span, and it was a race
against time; could Skippy get us to our destination before we blew every
circuit in the ship?

To reduce power needs, we had no stealth field,
shields were at minimum power to protect us only against microscopic impacts
from space debris, and life support like heat, lights and oxygen recycling were
cut back. Some parts of the ship were evacuated, so we could entirely cut power
to those areas. Artificial gravity was lowered to 18%, that system's most
efficient power setting, other than being switched off. I wasn't ready for zero
gee yet.

Eighteen people were living aboard the 
Flower
,
because that ship had plenty of power, although that little ship was pushing
its limits to supply fresh oxygen and expel waste heat from eighteen living,
breathing humans. The 
Flower
 had detached from its docking platform and
was now grappled directly onto the 
Dutchman's
 spine frame, we'd moved
the little ship closer so it could supply partial power to its mother ship.
That hadn't worked well, Skippy had to jury-rig power transfer cables, and the
two ships' systems weren't compatible. Conditions aboard the 
Flower
 were
not only cramped, people there were living in the zero gee, because the
Kristang didn't have artificial gravity technology. Our special forces saw this
as an opportunity for zero gee combat training. That was a good idea, and it
kept people busy and focused.

We all needed to keep busy, to keep our minds off our
dilemma. Our destination was a marginally habitable planet, or more accurately
a planet Skippy thought might be habitable, in that it supposedly had an oxygen
atmosphere and temperatures within a range humans could survive. His
information was sketchy, he got it third hand from the Thuranin, who got it
from the Kristang, who got it from the Ruhar. The planet had been in Ruhar
territory before the recent wormhole shift, no Ruhar lived there, which wasn't
encouraging for us. The planet was now in Kristang territory, and apparently no
lizards wanted to live there either. Also not encouraging.

The reason we had to abandon ship was that Skippy
needed to repair it, rebuild it from the junk pile it had become. We were going
to leave the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
 in orbit around a gas giant planet,
with Skippy remaining aboard by himself. He was going to mine the planet's
numerous moons for raw materials, and mine the gas giant's atmosphere for
reactor fuel. While Skippy was rebuilding the ship, it would be torn apart and
unable to support life. Could Skippy essentially build us a new ship, from
nothing much more than moondust and toxic gases? To the crew, he was supremely,
arrogantly confident. To me, in private, not so much. "I won't know until
I get under the hood," he told me, "could be expensive. You got
insurance on this thing, right? Might want to think about a rental car."

When a car mechanic talked to me like that, he
probably needed to make a payment on his boat. "Be serious for a moment,
Skippy. Can you fix the ship?"

"That's not a yes or no question, Joe. Let's see
if I can dumb this down enough for you: I don't have enough data now. The
question is whether my repair effort will consume resources faster than I can
create new ones, and I won't know that until I scan what raw materials are
available. If I don't find critical elements quickly, or it takes too much
energy to process the raw materials, then I'm on a downward spiral. Joe, I
simply do not know. The only data I have on this system is a vague report the
Kristang got from a Ruhar computer, when they captured Paradise. The Ruhar only
cared whether the system held a habitable planet, data on the other planets is
very thin. I'm guessing. We don't have another survivable option in
range."

"Oh," I said, "uh, about that rental
car?"

 

 

The 
Flying
 
Dutchman
 limped into orbit
around the gas giant, an orbit that was barely adequate for Skippy's needs, the
bottom of the orbit dipped too close to the cloud tops, while the other end of
the orbit swung inconveniently far away. With the ship completely drained of
all but emergency power, there was no energy to spare for altering the 
Dutchman's

orbit. Skippy said he could live with it.

The first thing Skippy did was listen for any sign of
other ships in the star system, and he didn't find anything. If there was a
ship, it was silent and stealthed, and we couldn't do anything about it. Any
ship that had been in the system long-term, even stealthed, would have left a
trail of exhaust and other gases, Skippy didn't see anything like that, and
there didn't seem to be any point for a ship to be stealthed, so far inside
Thuranin-Kristang territory.

Next, he checked out the second planet from the star,
the place we humans would be living while Skippy pimped our ride, by himself.
At that moment, the second planet was on the other side of the star system,
only a couple weeks from swinging completely behind the star. 

"Sir?" Adams asked while we were all still
reading through Skippy's data, "what do we call the planet?"

"Which one," I asked. "The one we'll be
living on, or this gas giant? Oh, duh, the one we'll be living on, of
course." Nobody cared about Skippy's gas station, which was all the giant
planet meant to us, a source of helium 3. According to Skippy's preliminary
data, the second planet in the system, the only one that could support human
life, was only marginally habitable. And that was the 'good' news. Its orbit
was elliptical rather than round, so each year it swung far away from the star,
then much closer. That planet's funky orbit took it close to the outer edge,
then inside the middle of the 'Goldilocks Zone', where it was not too hot and
not too cold for life. The planet was frozen most of its year, with only part
of the surface along the equator thawing as it swung closer to the star.
Another piece of good news is the planet was approaching the summer part of its
orbit, it should become marginally warmer while we lived there. Oxygen levels
in the habitable area were low, equivalent to ten thousand feet elevation on
Earth, while gravity was fourteen percent stronger than Earth normal. And,
because we were on a stolen Thuranin ship, the artificial gravity aboard the 
Dutchman

was normally set at 83% of Earth normal. At my request, Skippy had been able to
goose up the gravity to 87% of Earth normal, still, setting down on the planet
would be a 31% increase over the gravity we’d gotten used to. And since the
battle, gravity aboard the ship had been much lower. The sudden increase in
weight was going to be tough. Life there, when not covered under snow and ice,
consisted of simple grasses, moss and lichen, the type of plants you would find
in the tundra of Canada or Siberia. Skippy detected substantially more life in
the oceans than on the land, still, most of the oceans were covered by ice just
like the land. The place was chilly, heavy and hard to breathe. Definitely not
Paradise. "It's cold."

"We should call it Hoth." Williams
suggested.

"Hoth?" I asked. "Why's that?"

"Hoth. You know, the ice planet where the rebels
had their base in 'The Empire Strikes Back'. Star Wars."

"Oh, yeah." I remembered now. "No,
we're not calling it Hoth, sounds too much like 'hot'. This planet is a crappy
place. Nobody 
wants
 to be there, we're only going there because we have
to, and we're leaving as soon as we can."

Seager snorted from the pilot seat. "Sounds like
Newark."

"Newark?" I asked.

"You ever fly through Newark?" Seager
shrugged. "Lots of people go through Newark, but no one 
wants
 to be
there."

Adams and I shared an amused look. "I like
it." Adams said.

Wracking my brain, I tried to remember whether any of
our merry band of pirates was from Newark. Or New Jersey in general. "What
the hell, why not? Newark it is."

"Uh, oh. Damn." Skippy said. "Joe, we
have a major complication. There is a group of Kristang on the planet."

"What?" My heart sank. The 
Dutchman

was dead; we couldn't live on the ship while it was being repaired. We couldn't
live on a planet occupied by Kristang either. There was no other option. We
came all this way, for nothing? "What the hell are they doing there?"

"Wait, wait, I'm still processing the data, this
may not be a total disaster. It is a small group; they do not have a ship with
them. The data I have comes from the two small satellites they have in orbit. I
think, hmm, it appears they are a small group, around thirty, that were landed
there to search for remains of an Elder ship crash. Hmm, that certainly sounds
familiar, huh? They have one base and only two, maybe three aircraft, they stay
close to the main crash site. They're not warrior, they're scavengers. Joe, I
think you can land on another part of the planet, and remain concealed. Their
satellites, I can hack into and filter data the satellites transmit, so the
Kristang will not know you are there."

"Concealing the presence of seventy humans is
going to be one hell of a magic trick, Skippy."

"Hey, they don't call me Skippy the Magnificent
for nothing."

"Nobody calls you Skippy the Magnificent."

He sniffed. "Well, they should. We will need a
closer look at these Kristang, that can be part of the 
Flower's
 recon
mission. I am now scanning this planet's moons to determine whether the proper
raw materials to repair the ship are available in sufficient quantity."

"Great, send what you have to our science team,
I'm going to talk to them." They'd want to show their findings to me
anyway. "Sergeant Adams, you have the, uh," since there was nothing
to conn aboard a dead ship, "the chair."

 

On my way to the ship's science lab, which was only an
empty cargo bay that held tables covered with computers and all sorts of
scientific instruments, I stopped to talk with Major Simms, she was organizing
the effort to identify and pack up everything we needed to survive for months
on the ice planet, I needed to remember to call it 'Newark'. She was beyond
busy, helping her sort through a mountain of gear were the British SAS team and
the Chinese 'Night Tiger' special forces. The Brits and Chinese worked well
together, their commanders got along well, so at Lt Colonel Chang's suggestion,
I assigned them to officially be a team. "Major Simms, how is it
going?"

"Busy, sir," she said in a tone that me
dropping by to ask stupid questions was anything but helpful. She tapped her
iPad, everyone was studying their iPads intently. "We just received the
preliminary data on the planet, we're really going to call it 'Newark'?"
She didn't wait for an answer. "The gravity and low oxygen levels we can
simply deal with," the Chinese and British team leaders nodded stoically,
"the cold we'll have to plan for. Daytime high temperatures can be briefly
pleasant in the peak of summer, almost 18 degrees." For a moment I was
startled, until I realized she was talking about temperatures in Celsius, and I
had to mentally convert to Fahrenheit, that was, uh, around 65 degrees.
Pleasant. "That isn't the norm," she warned, "during winter, this
place has snow even at the equator."

"You heard about the Kristang there?" I
asked.

“Just did,” she nodded, and the special forces looked
grim. "Until you tell me otherwise, sir, I'm preparing to evacuate us to
Newark."

"Carry on." I didn't know what else to say
at the moment, because I didn't know what to do about the Kristang either. A
small group on the surface, without a space-capable ship, would be an easy
target for even the 
Flower's
 meager weapons load. I needed to balance
the convenience of eliminating a minor threat, with the greater threat of a
Kristang ship arriving to pick up the scavengers, and finding them all dead
from orbital strikes. Such a ship would scan the surface intently, inevitably
find us, and might even find the 
Dutchman
. I needed to think long and
hard about our options. My options. It would be my decision; I was the
commander.

Crap. I realized with a shock that, somehow, I had
become that upper-echelon asshole who made dumbass decisions and made people's
life miserable. When I was a private, then a specialist and then a sergeant, I
had hated those dumbasses. And now, I was one.

The entire science team, including the three walking
wounded, were gathered in their lab, talking excitedly. "Colonel J-
Bishop!" Dr. Venkman called me over, almost referring to me by the
nickname Skippy used. "Mr. Skippy just reported that this planet, and its
moons, are adequate for repairing the ship. He asked me to tell you that he has
found sufficient quantities of raw materials, including the critical elements
vanadium, rhenium and bismuth."

"Great, uh," I was super self-conscious of
my ignorance in a roomful of certified geniuses, "what are those?"

"Vanadium and rhenium are transition
metals," she could tell by the blank look on my face that I had absolutely
no idea what she was talking about. "They are valuable metals; we do not
yet understand why they are needed in large quantities to repair the ship. As
to bismuth," she made an exaggerated shrug.

"Isn't that," I guessed, "used in pepto
bismol? Like when you have an upset stomach?"

"Bismuth subsalicylate, yes." She shook her
head. "We do not know why it would be useful here, on Earth it is often
used as a less toxic substitute for lead. Bismuth is a post-transition metal
that is the most diamagnetic element," she paused, sparing me further
embarrassment. "It is apparently good news, anyway."

"That is good news, yeah," I agreed. Skippy
could fix the ship with the materials at hand, that was one less thing to worry
about. We still had that other major problem. "You may not have heard yet,
there is a group of Kristang on the planet, we're uh, we're calling the planet
Newark."

"We just heard about the Kristang," she
said, glancing at her iPad. "What are we going to do about them,
Colonel?" She couldn't keep the anxiety out of her voice.

I could sympathize with her, the science team knew
they were completely reliant on the military to deal with the Kristang, all
they could do was analyze the scientific crumbs Skippy threw their way, and
hope the 
Dutchman's
 crew kept them safe. "We are considering
options, Dr. Venkman, Skippy is still analyzing the data. We'll be sending the 
Flower

out to recon the planet, and assess the threat the Kristang pose to us." Unspoken
was that one of our options was self-destructing the ship. I didn’t like that
one.

 

Back on the bridge, I was looking at the sensor data
on my iPad. Those Kristang could be a major, show-stopping problem. And, it
occurred to me right then, we might have another huge problem. "Skippy,
during the battle, our stealth field was down?" Over in the CIC, I could
see people nodding ‘yes’ slowly in answer to my question.

"After the first hit, yes,” Skippy answered, “it
was partially down, because I had to divert power to the shields."

This is what I'd been afraid of. "The Thuranin
now know one of their own star carriers is hostile."

"Yes, however, I must point out, I altered our
jump drive signature to make us appear to be that star carrier that disappeared
seventeen years ago, as we discussed."

"Great, excellent." One less thing for me to
worry about.

Chang looked puzzled. "What star carrier?"

Damn it, I should have told people about that, it had
slipped my mind. That's what happens when I have late night conversations with
Skippy. "I'll explain later. It is some good news."

Simms looked at me pointedly, unhappy that there was
something I hadn't told my command crew. "We can use some good news now.
Sir." There was a distinct pause before she'd added the 'sir'.

She'd made her point, people needed me to explain
right then. I turned the chair to face the CIC. "There was a Thuranin star
carrier, very similar to the 
Dutchman
, that disappeared seventeen years
ago, the Thuranin think the Kristang stole it. Skippy altered our jump drive
signature so the 
Dutchman
 appears to be that missing ship, instead of
this ship that mysteriously disappeared near Paradise, where humans are living.
Hopefully this will throw the Thuranin's suspicions away from humans and onto
the Kristang. It should keep them chasing ghosts for a while. Skippy, no way
the Thuranin know there are humans aboard this ship?"

"No way, Joe. In order for the Thuranin to know
that, they would have had to get close enough to actively scan this ship with
our stealth field deactivated, and that never happened. Your secret is still
safe, Joe. The slow, clumsy way this ship flew and reacted, during the battle,
would lead the Thuranin to suspect this ship is being flown by a lower-tech
species. However, as we discussed, the Thuranin will suspect the Kristang,
there is no reason they would consider humans as being involved in any
way." Skippy paused. "Oh. Hmm. Captain Desai, I did not mean to
disparage your piloting abilities."

"I understood what you meant, Mr. Skippy,"
Desai responded. She had done her best to keep the Dutchman out of the line of
fire during the battle, still the ship had been struck by particle beams many
more time that it would have, had Thuranin cyborgs been in command.

From the expression on the faces of people in the CIC,
including Chang and Simms, the crew was not happy about me neglecting to
mention that I had inquire about whether our star carrier was unique enough to
be immediately identifiable. They were right to be upset; I should have told
them. I thought of another problem, and zoomed out on the main bridge display.
"Newark is on the other side of the star now, right? Not completely, close
enough."

"Yes."

"How are we going to talk, when we’re down there,
and you’re way up here? There will be a time lag of, what? An hour?"

"Light will take around hour to travel one way,
yes, and the problem will grow worse as Newark's orbit takes it further
away."

I shook my head. "That is unsat. Isn't there some
sort of Skippy magic you can do, to speed up our communications? What if you
get stuck on a crossword puzzle, and you need my help?"

"Like if the clue is 'feline', three letters, and
it starts with 'C' and 'A'?"

"Yeah, see? I can tell you the answer is not
'pussy' like you were thinking." I caught a glance from Simms in the CIC
when I made that remark. Damn it, this is why I liked to have conversations
with Skippy in private, so I didn’t have to watch what I was saying. Also so
people couldn’t hear him insult me frequently.

"If either of us is thinking about pussy, it's
not me, Joey. To be serious, yes, there is Skippy magic I will be using. I'm
going to create a microwormhole we can use to communicate through. One end of
the wormhole will be with me, the other end of the wormhole will be in
geosynchronous orbit around Newark. For your benefit, Joe, that means-"

"I know what a geosynchronous orbit is, Skippy.
On Earth, it means the satellite is parked 22,500 miles above the equator, so
it is always at the same place in the sky as the Earth rotates. That's because
at that altitude, the satellite is moving at the same speed as the Earth's
equator rotates."

Silence.

He got me worried. "Skippy? Hello?"

"Sorry, you just completely blew my mind for a
minute. How do 
you
 know that?"

Feeling mildly insulted, I explained. "A guy
tried to sell my parents a satellite TV system, and I had to explain to them
why the pizza box dish antenna needs to point low in the southern sky, like
over Brazil. I looked it up on Wikipedia."

"Is all your scientific knowledge based on
internet articles?"

"No, Skippy, of course not. I also used to watch
the Discovery channel."

"There is no hope for your species,” he said
sadly.” You monkeys should surrender to the cockroaches immediately, and get it
over with. You, for one, should welcome your new cockroach overlords."

"Hey, cockroaches may eat stuffed-crust pizza,
but did they invent stuffed-crust pizza? I don't 
think
 so."

"Stuffed-crust pizza?" Skippy said slowly.
"Your species' single contribution to galactic culture."

"You forgot fantasy sports, Skippy."

"I rest my case."

"Great. This microwormhole dingus means we'll be
in constant communication, then?"

"Not quite. Even Skippy magic can screw with the
laws of physics in this spacetime only so much. On my own, I can't project a
wormhole that far, and a jump breaks the connection between wormholes, so the 
Flower

can’t carry the wormhole for me. I have modified a missile to carry the other
end of the wormhole, as soon as it is ready, I will launch it toward Newark,
the missile will take five days to get there, because I have to save more than
half its fuel to slow down once it get there, to maneuver the wormhole into
orbit. The missile will launch before the 
Flower
 returns, however, for
your first several days on the surface, there will be a major time lag in our
communications. It is vital that during those days, you make an exceptional
effort to avoid doing anything stupid."

"Hey, no worries, Skippy, it's me."

"Exactly what I'm afraid of."

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER FOURTEEN

 

The communications time lag wasn't a problem only when
the crew was on Newark, it also meant I would have no idea what was going on
with the 
Flower
, until that ship returned from its scouting mission. In
making plans, we had discussed the possibility of the 
Flower
 using its
armaments to pound the Kristang settlement from orbit, and eliminate the threat
entirely. As a frigate, the 
Flower
 wasn't designed for orbital
bombardment, but it did have a railgun and we could make do. We'd discarded
that idea for two reasons. If the first shot didn't take out every single one
of the Kristang, we'd have a hell of a time hunting them all down. We had no
certain knowledge whether the Kristang were all in one place, or scattered
across the planet. We couldn't afford to have the 
Flower
 lingering in
orbit for a long time, exposed, searching for Kristang one by one. Second, and
most important, our entire plan hinged on our presence on Newark not being
detected, because if we were discovered, the Kristang there could call for help,
and then we'd be screwed whether we had beat-up stolen frigate or not. If,
maybe when, a Kristang ship arrived to pick up the lizards on the surface, it
would not be good for that ship to find all the lizards on the surface dead,
with evidence of them having been attacked from orbit. That would cause the
Kristang to intensely scan the surface. And inevitably find us. No, what we
wanted, if a Kristang ship arrived, was to find only a bored, desperate gang of
lizards who wanted to get off the surface and depart Newark as soon as
possible. We wanted them to find that, and nothing else.

To prevent the Kristang on the surface from detecting
a human presence on Newark, Skippy had another trick up his sleeve. Because he
couldn't get close enough to handle it himself, he had loaded a submind into
the computer system of the 
Flower
, complaining all the time that the
frigate barely had memory storage enough to hold a dumdum monkey brain, and was
completely inadequate to contain a useful AI submind. Even stripping out the
Kristang software completely, the dumbed-down submind was dangerously unstable,
and we had to hope it would survive long enough to do its job before it broke
down.

The submind's job was to infiltrate the two small
satellites the Kristang had in orbit. Infiltrate, and over write the existing
processing system, so the satellites would from then on ignore any images or
sensor data about humans on or around Newark. When the Kristang scavengers
looked at the surface from a satellite camera, if those satellite cameras or
sensors were pointed at a human settlement, the Kristang would not see anything
unnatural. The images would be edited in real time to show nothing but blank,
boring snow, mud and tundra. If that worked, we only had to worry about a
Kristang aircraft flying over us, and someone looking out the window.
Hopefully, that was unlikely, and from our own satellites, we would have plenty
of warning if a Kristang aircraft approached where we were hiding.

The 
Flower
 was going to drop off two tiny, stealthed
Thuranin satellites for our use. One satellite would be in polar orbit to cover
the planet's entire surface once each day, the other would be moved in
geosynchronous orbit above our hiding place, after we decided where that was.
Skippy could access satellite data through the microwormhole, and we could
access the satellites in real-time, through an encrypted tightbeam maserlink.
The only way the Kristang could detect the satellite feed is if one of their
aircraft happened to fly through the communications maser beam, a beam less
than a human hair in diameter. Since we would be able to see their aircraft
approaching, and be able to see everything the Kristang were doing and
intercept all their communications, it would be impossible for them to sneak up
on us.

All this was according to Skippy, who would be by
himself at Skippy's Garage and Gas Station on the other side of the star
system.

I had faith in Skippy, he had certainly earned it.
What bothered me was not our plans, or our ability to implement such plans, or
the top-notch people I was privileged to have under my command. What bothered
me was our rotten luck.

Lt. Colonel Chang had told me, back when I was trying
to convince our original merry band of pirates on Paradise to follow me on an
ill-defined, ultra-high-risk mission, that he agreed to sign on not because I
was brave, or smart, but because I, somehow, was 
lucky
. That I had a
knack for being in the right, or wrong depending how you looked at it, place at
the right time. I do not believe in astrology, or numerology, or any of an
infinite number of increasingly whacky conspiracy theories, but there was no
one who could deny that luck was a real thing. Skippy had hinted more than once
that there was no such thing as luck, that humans conceived of 'luck' because
we had no idea how the universe truly worked.

Whatever.

What I knew for sure was that our 'luck' so far on
this mission was crap. Places where we should have found Skippy's magic radio
for talking to the Collective were empty, or mysteriously blown apart. The
mission had lasted longer than it should have, because things that should have
been in a place, were not in that place. For no logical reason Skippy could
explain. In fact, against all logic Skippy knew of. Rotten luck.

Then, we'd jumped into a trap, a trap that could not
have been set for the 
Dutchman
, no way could the Thuranin have
anticipated the 
Dutchman
 would arrive, there, then. A trap we'd barely
escaped from.

Now, against all odds, we had managed to travel
between stars, in a ship with no functioning reactors, travelled to an
unwanted, useless star system that no one cared about, and what do we find in
the middle of nowhere? A group of Kristang! Crap! What the hell were Kristang
doing on Newark? What are the odds, right? That is totally rotten luck. Rotten
luck that made me afraid that my good luck had run out, and it would all be
downhill from here. Downhill for all of us, not only me. Was this karma coming
back to bite me in the ass? Had I been so lucky in the past that I'd cashed in
all those chips, and now I was in debt to the house?

 

 

 

 

I felt useless, sitting aboard the Dutchman doing
nothing, while Chang was on a scouting mission with the 
Flower
. "Skippy,”
I asked, “you're sure none of us could stay behind to help fix the ship?"

"Help from monkeys? By doing what? Burping and
scratching yourselves?"

"No, Skippy," I was heartened to hear he'd
gotten a bit of his snarkiness back. "I'm talking about us burping and
scratching ourselves 
at
 
the
 
same
 
time
."

"Oh, well, then. That changes things. In that
case, no. Joe, I'd love someone to stay aboard to give me someone to talk to.
No offense, you all need to get off the ship. There isn't going to be any
oxygen here, most of the ship won't have any atmosphere at all part of the
time. Until I can get a reactor back online, the shield generators are going to
be dead soon, and the radiation will kill you biologicals."

Biologicals? That was an improvement over 'meatsacks',
Skippy may be warming up to us. "Still, five months? Five months is a long
time." Skippy would be alone aboard the 
Dutchman
. The entire crew
would be stranded on an unknown, unexplored planet.

"Long? Five short months is a genuine grade-A
freakin' Skippy miracle. Joe, to rebuild this ship, I have to use raw
materials, scavenged from the ship and gathered from the planet's moons, in
order to build the tools I need, to build other tools, to build other tools, to
finally build the tools to fix the ship. Then I have to begin fixing the ship.
You know those so-called reality shows, where some scruffy-looking guy is out
in the wilderness, all he has is a knife, and he's supposed to survive for a
month?"

"A knife, plus a camera crew with satellite
phones and a helicopter?" I pointed out. "But yeah, I know what you
mean."

"That guy on TV has at least has a knife. I'm
starting with only a paper clip, and I'm rebuilding a gosh-darn starship."
Skippy complained. "You're right, that guy on TV has a camera crew if he
gets in trouble. All I have is a barrel of monkeys, and you'll be way over on
the other side of the star system. If something bad happens before the 
Flying

Dutchman
 is ready, like if a Thuranin ship arrives looking for us, we
are all totally, totally screwed."

"Yeah, I know. I'd be more comfortable if we had
some margin for error. You really need the 
Flower
?"

"Absolutely. First, I need that ship to dip into
the gas giant's atmosphere for collecting helium 3 to refuel the reactors.
After that, the 
Flower
 contains materials not readily available in this
planet's moons or ring system, so that frigate, and our old busted up Ruhar
Dodo, have to be sacrificed to rebuild the 
Dutchman
."

"I understand that. My problem is you have all
your chips on the table. All three Thuranin dropships have to stay here? One of
them can't stay with us on the planet? With those Kristang hanging around,
we'll be sitting ducks if the only way we can get around is by walking."

"Sorry Joe, no can do. I'll be mining this
planet's moons and rings with those dropships and with robots that weren't
designed to operate independently of the ship. Leaving a single dropship with
you would increase my estimated repair time from five months to seven. That is
two additional months, during which the Kristang on the planet might discover
your presence, or a Kristang ship may arrive to pick them up, and detect you
from orbit, or a Thuranin scouting force may come to this star system and find
our stolen star carrier. We have to balance the risks."

"You're right, you're right." I would have
made the same call. In fact, I did, the first time Skippy explained his plan to
me.

I still didn't like it.

 

 

The 
Flower
 jumped back in from its scouting
mission, right on time. It would take the frigate over two hours to match
course with the dead and drifting 
Dutchman
, so Chang transmitted his
data immediately. There was no reason to wait. We couldn't wait. Conditions
aboard the star carrier were becoming unlivable, we needed to get off the ship
soon. Or not. It was my decision. I needed intel.

Skippy poured through the data recovered from our
stealth satellites, the Kristang satellites that Skippy's submind had
successfully infiltrated, and Kristang databanks on the ground. It was, as
Skippy was fond of saying, good news and bad news. His initial guess about the
Kristang group there was correct, they were a scavenger crew that had been
dropped off almost a year ago, to comb the surface of Newark for the debris of
a crashed Elder starship. Their leader was a third son of a second-tier leader
of a minor clan, as such, he was desperate to recover something useful to raise
his family's fortunes within the clan. With him, he had five other semi-trusted
clan brothers, and twenty eight forced laborers. The forced labor came from
Kristang who were criminals, or slaves captured from other clans, or clan
brothers whose families were deeply in debt and had sent their sons to work off
part of the debt.

The scavengers were a low-budget group, using second
or third-hand, worn-out equipment without sufficient spare parts or expertise
for properly maintaining the equipment. Originally, they had a beat-up dropship
and two aircraft, one of the aircraft had crashed near their base, and the
leader didn't want to risk flying their dropship, so they only had one
functional aircraft. They had six sets of powered armor suits, two of which
were no longer working. And since they landed a year ago, five laborers had
died in accidents, plus another two had been executed for disobedience. Morale
in the scavenger group was bad, to say the least. They were all males, not even
a single female with them. They had no fresh food, not even for the leaders,
their base camp was cramped with limited recreation facilities, their one medic
had died in an accident, and their medical treatment capability was provided by
a AI that worked only about half the time. From their records Skippy had access
to, the Kristang had remained within 300 kilometers of their base, that was
where the debris from the crashed Elder ship was buried. All that was good news
for us.

The bad news was about geography. Only the equator of
the planet was livable, the remainder of that world was frozen solid, with
awful weather and temperatures humans couldn't survive, and the ice pack and
glaciers closer to the equator were mushy from the summer warming, with the surface
there too treacherous for habitation. The last thing we wanted was for an ice
cavern to collapse on us. Of the land exposed along the equator, much of it was
frigid swamp and spongy thawing tundra, with no place for us to burrow into and
hide. Three quarters of the equator was ocean, there wasn't a lot of real
estate for us to choose from. What Skippy recommended was uncomfortably close
to the Kristang base, less than 1300 kilometers to the east. The terrain there
was grassland, eroded canyons and hills, with caverns Skippy thought would be
good places to take shelter away from prying eyes.

"You have scans of the subsurface?" I asked.
"Show me."

The display zoomed in on the area Skippy suggested we
take shelter, first a regular video image, then it flipped to show what lay
beneath the surface. "The satellites we have aren't designed for this sort
of scanning," he explained, "I'm having to make do. See the
caverns?"

There were pockets, some of them extensive, under the
surface. Unfortunately, as I played with the display, most of the caverns big
enough to be useful for shelter were deep underground, and either not connected
to the surface at all, or connected only by a narrow passage. That was no good
for our purposes, we couldn't take the time to excavate a cavern, and we had to
be careful not to leave a debris pile on the surface. "Mmm, hey, how about
this?" There was an area of canyons and caverns a hundred kilometers north
of the place Skippy recommended. "These caverns are big enough." Some
of the caverns were shallow, large openings but they didn't go deep enough into
the side of the canyons to provide real shelter.

"That is a possibility, I didn't think you would
want to be in an area of canyons. Some of those canyons are subject to flash
flooding in summer, as the glaciers melt."

"I hear you, Skippy, that's a good point. What I
need is to talk with a geologist."

 

We had one geologist on the science team, technically she
had only minored in geology, her focus was astrophysics. Dr. Kassner came to my
office, since the whole science lab was in an area of the ship that currently
had no heat, power, artificial gravity or breathable air.

"What about this area," I asked, pointing to
the canyon lands in my iPad. "Some of these caverns appear to be large
enough to house us, and deep enough into the hillside to keep us out of
sight."

"We won't be in tents, then?" Kassner asked
with a frown, brushing a stray lock of blonde hair away from her face.

I shook my head. "No. Tents are too visible. If
the Kristang fly an aircraft over the area, we can't risk them seeing anything.
We will have warning of their aircraft approaching, it may not be enough time
for us to strike the tents and get everything hidden, I don't want to take that
risk. Besides, the weather on this planet can be harsh, I'd rather everyone is
in a relatively dry cave, than in damp tents on the surface."

"Dry may be a relative term," Kassner mused,
"these canyons channel melt water in the summers, you can see erosion
layers, recent, last season. We also don't know how shallow the water table is
in this area, caverns could flood from the bottom. Colonel," she said
while nervously tugging on her ponytail, “you understand that the last time I
seriously studied geology was twenty years ago.”

"I know that I'm asking you to guess-"

"We don't have enough data, historical data,"
she protested.

"How about this, then," I said, "are
these caverns structurally sound? Flooding is a potential problem we can deal
with, a roof collapsing on us isn't."

Kassner frowned as she manipulated the images, going
deeper underground. "Do you need an answer right now?"

"No." Realistically, I didn't need an answer
until the 
Flower
 docked with the ship loaded with supplies and people,
and was ready to jump again. At that point, Chang did need to know where his
dropships were going to land. And, whether we were going to Newark at all. Simms
had a small mountain of supplies organized and ready to be loaded aboard the 
Flower
,
enough supplies for eight months, as a precaution in case Skippy ran into
problems rebuilding the 
Dutchman
. Major Simms had hardly slept, as our
only logistics specialist, she had to figure not only what supplies we needed,
and how much, she needed to have everything organized so that the first two
dropships to land contained the equipment the first wave of people needed.
Combat loading, we called that in the military; weapons were unloaded first,
dry socks unloaded last. The two dropships were being loaded now, Chang hadn't
needed them aboard the 
Flower
 for his scouting mission. "No, Doctor,
I'll need an answer in about ten hours. Talk to Skippy, pull in whoever you
need. Keep in mind, whatever site you recommend will be where we're living for
the next four to eight months. Comfort is not our major priority, safety and concealment
are.”

 

We had enough data about Newark, and the Kristang there,
to make a decision. Not only a decision about where to land on Newark, a more
basic decision about whether to land there at all. Whether to take the risk of
us being on Newark. To advise me, I called together my command crew of Chang,
Simms and Adams, plus the five SpecOps team leaders, in the CIC. With much of
the ship closed off, the CIC was the only compartment large enough for a
meeting of more than four people, unless we all stood in a corridor. As there
was nothing much for a crew to do in the CIC with the ship dead and drifting, I
had cleared the compartment.

“Thank you,” I said, as a harried-looking Major Simms
came into the CIC, a portable oxygen mask still hanging from her neck. She’d
been down in the cargo bays, supervising the teams packing supplies for Newark,
and Skippy had been forced to cut off the fresh oxygen supply to that area of
the ship. “Now that we’re all here, I need your advice. We now have enough
information about Newark to know that we can survive down there, and we know
that we soon will not be able to survive aboard this ship. We also have
information about the Kristang on Newark, and we have a limited, substantial
but limited, ability to mask our presence on the planet from the Kristang. The
question is whether we can take the risk of going down to Newark-”

“My advice,” Skippy interrupted, “is you go down
there, you dumdums. That’s why we came all the way here! What else are-”

It was my turn to interrupt him. “Skippy, I appreciate
if you can provide information, but this primarily affects us humans, and this needs
to be our decision.”

“No, Joe. You are the commander. This is 
your

decision,” he said simply, and the people in the CIC all nodded. “You once told
me that one of the drawbacks to being in the military, is that the chain of
command requires you to put your life in the hands of people who may be idiots.
Today, you are that potential idiot. I trust you will do your best to make a
wise decision. Joe, I will refrain from comment, unless you request me to join
the discussion.”

“Thank you, Skippy. The question is whether we can
take the risk of going down to Newark. Not risk to us, because if we don’t go
to Newark, there is a hundred percent certainty that we will not survive. Once
Skippy begins tearing the ship apart to fix it, there will be no oxygen, and lethal
levels of radiation. The risk we have to consider is the risk to Earth; the
risk that our presence on Newark may be discovered, and Earth could be targeted
by aliens, regardless of whether the wormhole is available to shorten their
trip there. When we came out here, our mission was simple; we assist Skippy in
contacting the Collective, and we do not take any risks with aliens discovering
that humans are roaming the galaxy in a pirate ship.”

"Except that's not quite true, is it, sir?" The
SAS team leader Captain Smythe observed. I still found it jarring that a
bad-ass soldier spoke with such a refined British accent. Smythe was SAS, he
could probably kill me with a paper clip, any of the special forces could. With
his oh-so-proper accent Smythe sounded like he would kill me, then apologize
for not having been quite sporting about it, terribly sorry old chap, that sort
of thing. "Our prime mission objective is not 
zero
 risk that other
species will learn we humans are out here roaming around as you say, the
objective is 
minimal
 risk. Otherwise, Colonel, you could have detonated
a nuke as soon as our friend Skippy shut down the wormhole." He looked
around the CIC. "We all know the stated mission objectives. We also know
what hasn’t been said, not openly.”

“Go on, Captain Smythe,” I said. I wanted a frank and
open discussion, and I was getting one, this was good. The people in the CIC
all had far more experience that I did with making command decisions, I needed
to listen to them.

Smythe continued “
First, our true mission out here is to
assure this Skippy being doesn't decide that we're not upholding our end of the
bargain, and reopens the wormhole near Earth out of spite.” He glanced at the
speaker in the ceiling, we all expected Skippy to respond to that remark. When
Skippy stayed silent, Smythe pressed onward. “Our second unstated objective is to
hopefully return home in the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
, so humanity will
have an advanced starship to take apart and study. We all believe aliens have
no access to Earth now, that may not be true in the future. Colonel, you found
a way to manipulate wormholes, who is to say some other species will not gain
the same capability? Or these periodic wormhole shifts could bring our wormhole
back to life."

Skippy had told me our local wormhole was dead, shut
down, that the connection to its power source was severed. He hadn't
specifically assured me that wormhole could never come back to life on its own.
Damn it, I should have asked him about that.

Smythe continued, looking straight at me. "Some
of you Americans, before the Second World War, believed that because you are
separated from most of the world by two great oceans, you need not fear
invasion, that the problems of the world were not your problems. Our entire
planet now faces a similar situation; we are protected by vast interstellar
distances, for now. That happy circumstance will not continue forever. We need
the technology of this ship to enable humanity to leap forward, so that when
trouble does come knocking on our door, we will be ready. And we all know
trouble will come knocking, some day." There were nodding heads all around
the CIC at that remark.

Smythe’s comments opened the floodgate; everyone
wanted to weigh in on the decision, for or against. After ten minutes of spirited
discussion, all eyes turned to Captain Xho, leader of the Chinese ‘Night Tiger’
special forces team. He had been mostly silent, until he cleared his throat,
and people waited for him to speak. "Captain Smythe, what you said is
true; there is no question that we need," he pointed at the deck,
"the technology of this ship. This is a matter of balancing risk and
reward, the risk of our presence on Newark being discovered, against the
possibility of bringing this ship home without Mr. Skippy. My pilots, and our
scientific staff," I assume he meant the Chinese contingent, "have
told me there is very little chance we can fly this ship all the way home,
without our benevolent AI friend helping us. We must weigh the very slender
possibility of the 
Dutchman
 returning home, against what I believe to be
the very real risk of the Kristang learning we are on Newark. We control the
satellites, certainly. What will happen if, when, a Kristang ship jumps into
orbit to retrieve their scavenger team? That ship's sensors would surely detect
us."

That started another round of discussion, this time
not about whether should land on Newark at all, but about what level of risk
was acceptable. Essentially, about how confident we were about our ability to
remain undetected. And what we could do to minimize the risk.

After another twenty minutes, everyone had said all
there was to say. The British, Indian and SEAL and Ranger commanders were in
favor of landing on Newark. The Chinese and French commanders were against
taking the risk of landing. That Renee Giraud was against landing surprised me.
“There must be an alternative, and if not,” he shrugged, “I didn’t expect to
live this long, Colonel.”

 There it was; four experienced combat commanders in
favor of going to Newark, two against. They all had made good arguments, and
they all were right about one thing, this was a matter of judgment. My
judgment, it was my decision. I nodded slowly, more to give myself additional
time to think than anything else. "Very well, I've made my decision. We're
going to Newark. The risks are real. Ultimately, my decision comes down to
this; I have to trust Skippy. His assessment, with all his awesome analytical
power, is the risk is minimal and manageable."

Giraud nodded slowly. "We have seen Skippy do
amazing thing, certainly. Sir, have you considered that this alien AI is
putting his thumb on the scale, when he is weighing the risks? He needs us to
risk landing on Newark, because us surviving there and returning to fly the
ship for him, is his only way to avoid being stranded in space forever. If our
presence on Newark is discovered, it will be a disaster for humanity, but to
Skippy, it will be the same as if we'd never gone to Newark in the first place.
Our taking the risk of landing on Newark has no, as you Americans say, downside
for Skippy. His only chance for a future is for us to risk the survival of our
entire species, for his benefit."

"I have considered that,” I replied. “Captain
Giraud, you need to consider this; if all Skippy cared about is continuing his
journey, he could have flown us to a star system that has a useable gas giant
planet for him to repair the ship, but no habitable planet for humans. He could
have told us our only option is to select a small number of people to survive
in a dropship or something while he rebuilds the 
Dutchman
, and everyone
else is out of luck. Dead. That option would have worked for Skippy, and he
would have had a large number of star systems to choose from. He didn't do
that, he found us a place where we can all survive. I'm going to trust him.”

Xho did not look happy. “Colonel Bishop, I fear we are
risking the lives of billions of people, who could not participate in this decision,”
and as he said that, he shared a glance with Chang.

A chill ran up my spine. For a moment, I feared Chang
and Xho had secret orders to take over the ship. With much of the ship
disabled, Skippy’s ability to interfere with a mutiny was limited.

Xho continued. “It is your decision to make, Colonel.
What are your orders?”

Inwardly, I shuddered with relief. “Colonel Chang, you
have the schedule for crew departure-“

 

Decision made, I contacted Kassner and asked her to
come to my office again. She looked like she hasn’t slept much either. "Doctor
Kassner, we are going to Newark. You've analyzed the data brought back by the 
Flower
?"

She was startled. "Colonel, I wasn't aware there
was a question about us landing on Newark. Isn't that why we're here?"

"There was a question about the security risk of
us landing," I explained. "We've resolved those concerns, for now.
We're going to land, the question is, where?"

She pointed to her iPad. "There is a mountain of
data here, even with Skippy's help, we've barely skimmed the surface. It's not
just that we don't have enough relevant data to analyze, some of the data we
have doesn't make sense. The oxygen level, for example."

"It's not going to be comfortable at first,"
I admitted, "we will need time to adjust. Skippy told me the oxygen level
is equivalent to Earth at ten thousand feet of altitude, and people live in
those conditions-"

"Yes, yes, you don't understand," she said.
"Our question is not why the oxygen level is so low, it's how the oxygen
level could possibly be so high. It doesn't make sense."

"Oh," I said, thinking I understood his
question, "sure, because there aren't any trees down there, to convert
carbon dioxide to free oxygen."

"No," she couldn't keep a tiny measure of fatigued
irritation from flashing across her face. When Skippy implied, or outright
stated, how ignorant and dimwitted I am, that didn't bother me, no human could
compare to his intelligence. When Kassner looked at me pityingly, as if she
were talking to a particularly slow small child, that pissed me off. She must
have sensed my irritation, because she hastened to add "That is a very
common misconception, even in the scientific community, except for people who
specialize in biology. On Earth today, plants such as trees do generate
substantial amounts of free oxygen, however, single-celled organisms utilizing
photosynthesis converted Earth's atmosphere billions of years ago from an
anaerobic state, to a state saturated with free oxygen. This was long before
the appearance of any land plants, the buildup of free oxygen was delayed by
minerals on the surface, such as iron, absorbing the free oxygen, until the
mineral base became saturated. At that point, we think the free oxygen reduced
the amount of methane in Earth's atmosphere, methane is a powerful greenhouse
gas, so falling methane levels triggered Earth's first ice age. That may be
what happened to Newark, we simply do not know yet. The level of methane in
Newark's atmosphere, we think primarily from volcanic activity, would indicate
a substantial greenhouse effect is occurring. That tells us the planet should
be warmer, that it was warmer in the past, considering the oxygen levels."

Interesting as I found this info, and I did want to
know more about it eventually, I needed a decision from her. There would be
plenty of time for me to learn about sciency stuff while we huddled in caverns
on Newark. Months in which I’d need something to do while the time slowly
passed. "None of this is likely to affect our ability to survive down
there for a few months?"

"No, no. I mentioned it, Colonel, only to show
you how woefully uninformed our decisions will be. Whatever the source of the
atmospheric anomalies, they will not affect the ability of Newark to support
human life, at least in the short term."

"Great. Excellent. Has the science team selected
a location?"

"The canyonlands you mentioned appear to be the
best candidate,” she said. “There are two caverns there, large enough to house
our population, and deep enough into the hillsides that the heat we generate
will mostly be confined underground. You said concealment is our top priority
in selecting a site, infrared radiation is our greatest liability in terms of
concealment. Assuming we will have advanced warning of overflights by Kristang
aircraft, we can turn off lights and get everyone inside the caverns. Heat,
however, will linger, the rocks of the caverns will absorb heat, and it will be
slow to dissipate. Therefore, another benefit of the canyonlands is that to the
south, roughly eight kilometers, is an area that is geothermically active, with
hot springs. Skippy told us the Kristang have not bothered to explore the
surface of Newark in detail, excess heat emanating from our caverns could be
explained by geothermal activity, if we are careful not to generate heat while
the Kristang are overhead."

"Got it," I was pleased the science team had
considered security, in ways I hadn't even thought about. Of course seventy
humans, and our shelters and cooking, and heating water for sanitation, would
generate a lot of heat. I should have thought of that. "What about
stability? Are the caverns stable?" In addition to my fear of heights, I
wasn't thrilled about the idea of being underground, with millions of tons of
rock above my head. "You said the area has hot springs?"

"Not in the immediate area of the canyons. These
caverns, these two caverns here," she tapped the display to zoom in,
"appear to be stable, the rock around them is," she paused, smiled,
seeking a word I would understand, "solid. We'll know more once we get
down there. We think we could live in these two large caverns, here and here,
and close by are other, smaller caverns we could use to store supplies."

"And the rivers? What happens when the glaciers
melt in the summer?" There were streams, or rivers, running down the
bottom of each canyon.

"We think," she looked me in the eye to
emphasize the team was making an educated guess, "based on erosion layers
in the canyons, that the entrances to these caverns are safely above the flood
level. There are other caverns in the canyon lands," she indicated them on
the screen, "that are flooded currently Both of the two major caverns we
recommend have secondary outlets, that are large enough for a person, or could
be enlarged to allow a person to crawl through. If the main parts of the
caverns do flood, we won't be trapped."

All the gear we needed to survive would be underwater,
he didn't mention. I nodded. "That's a manageable risk," I said.
Hell, what did I know? I was an inexperienced sergeant, pretending to be a
colonel. "Good. Doctor, you'll be on the first pair of dropships to land,
Colonel Chang will rely on your assessment of the sites." Chang would
command the 
Flower
, and be taking the first set of dropships down to
Newark. With me being almost two hours away for communications, Chang would be
making all the decisions on his own, until our stolen Kristang frigate came
back to get me and the remaining people and supplies. I hoped Chang knew that I
was going to trust his judgment completely, and not second guess him from the
other side of the star system.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER FIFTEEN

 

"Skippy, I do not like this," I said again.

"Colonel Joe, this is the seventh time you said
that." Skippy replied. "And the third time you have used those exact
same words. You are repeating yourself."

"You sure about that?"

"I can play back the audio recordings, if you
like."

"I would not like."

"Didn't think so. And I predicted you would not
like this, when I explained my plan to you originally."

"I know you-"

We were interrupted by the comm system. "
Dutchman
,
this is the 
Flower
, we are ready to depart." It was Chang's voice.

I glanced over to the CIC, everyone there gave me a
thumbs up sign. "Copy that, Colonel Chang, good luck to you."

"Roger, 
Dutchman
, we'll be back as soon as
we can."

There was a shudder as the 
Flower
 detached from
its hardpoint, with the artificial gravity off, we felt all the ship's
maneuvers. I watched on the main display as the 
Flower
 slowly backed off
on thrusters, spun around, then fired its main engines to move away to a safe
jump distance. That little ship, little only by comparison to the massive star
carrier, would be making two jumps to reach its destination. One jump away from
the 
Dutchman
 to an area of dead space closer to the star, where the
Flower would fire engines in a long burn to match course and speed with its
final destination. Then a second jump to the L2 Lagrange point above the far
side of the target planet's moon. The 
Flower
 had to remain on the far
side of that moon, to mask the gamma ray burst from its jumps.

Mask the gamma rays, from the unexpected guests; the
band of roughly thirty Kristang who were on the surface of the planet we needed
to live on. They weren't supposed to be there; Skippy didn't expect them. The
good news is there weren't many of them, and they didn't have a ship in orbit.
From the limited communications Skippy had intercepted, he guessed these were a
rather desperate band of down-on-their-luck Kristang, dropped off on the planet
to search for Elder artifacts. Some of the Kristang appeared to be prisoners,
or possibly slaves, they were all male, as far as Skippy could tell. Dropping
off a couple Thuranin stealth satellites would be one of the 
Flower's

first tasks, so we could gather more intel.

One way or the other, the entire crew had to evacuate
the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
, and the only place in range that could
support seventy humans was Newark. Very soon, the 
Dutchman
 would run out
of power for life support, and its highly eccentric orbit around the
Jupiter-size gas giant fourth planet in the system had the 
Dutchman

dipping deep into the strong radiation belts that surrounded the planet. Skippy
was draining emergency power from the capacitors to power the shield generators
around the forward part of the command section, the crew remaining aboard the 
Dutchman

were crowded as far forward as we could get. When the ship reached the low
point of its orbit and got fried by the radiation belts, we retreated into
three interior compartments, until the orbit took us above the worst of the
radiation. It was not an optimal situation.

With most of the crew now gone with the 
Flower
,
Skippy adjusted life support so only the compartments we occupied got heat,
light and ventilation, the rest of the ship was growing cold, and we'd need
breathing masks to get to the 
Flower
, when that ship returned to
evacuate us.

It was damned good that I had decided, with the
original Merry Band of Pirates, to keep the battle damaged 
Flower
,
having that ship as a lifeboat was saving our lives. There were fifty two
people squeezed into the 
Flower
 and the two Thuranin dropships in the 
Flower's

docking bays. That many people needed too much oxygen, and breathed out too
much carbon dioxide, for the life support system aboard the little frigate.
They also generated too much body heat. That didn't even consider food,
sleeping space and other biological functions. For a short trip, the 
Flower

and dropships could support fifty two people. It had better be a short trip.

 

Chang brought supplies and the first wave of people
down to Newark in two trips each by the two dropships. Because we couldn’t risk
the Kristang seeing contrails from the dropships scorching their way down into
the atmosphere, the dropships had to come in from far over the horizon, and
then fly low and relatively slowly to the landing site, burning additional time
and fuel. Skippy assured us that through his control of the two Kristang
satellites, the Kristang down there would not be able to see anything we didn’t
want them to see, such as Thuranin dropships. Even with stealth and a slow,
shallow entry profile, it was very difficult to hide the contrail of water
vapor behind the dropships. Whether Skippy had control of the satellites or
not, we could not prevent the Kristang from simply looking at the sky.
Fortunately, the skies on Newark were most often cloudy and raining. Bonus.

I was the last person to leave the 
Dutchman
,
taking the elevator up to the docking platform where the 
Flower
 was
parked. Because most of the star carrier no longer had life support such as
heat, lights and oxygen, I was in an armor suit. I stepped off the elevator,
carrying a small bag of personal items, a very small bag. Everyone had been
cautioned about their meager mass allowance, that caused some grumbling
particularly among the scientists, so I wanted to set a good example.

When the elevator stopped at the top and the door slid
open, I hesitated before walking forward and stepping from one ship to another.
Hopefully, I would be coming back to the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
, that my
journey aboard her was not over yet. After all, our pirate star carrier was
named after a legendary ship that was doomed to roam the seas forever with her
captain. The 
Dutchman
 was my first command, probably my only command.

With a deep breath, I took one step forward, then
another. The elevator door slid shut behind me, and I had left the 
Dutchman
,
for several months at least. There was no one to greet me, I walked forward
halfway to the backup bridge before I saw another person. Since the fight when
we captured the ship, we had repaired some of the battle damage. There were
still bullet holes, scorch marks, and impacts from shrapnel that we hadn't
gotten to yet, or had not bothered to patch up. Chang was in charge of fixing
up the frigate, I suspect he wanted to leave some reminders of our desperate
fight. Some things we couldn't fix, not without a major effort; the frigate's bridge
was still blasted apart from where Desai had shot it up with our stolen Dodo.
That seemed like a lifetime ago now, like it had happened to another person.
Around a bend in the corridor, I found Portillo, one of our Rangers, running a
finger around a bullet hole. I caught his eye, and neither of us said anything.
He pointed to the bullet hole and nodded silently. I nodded, nothing needed to
be said. He knew, I knew. We'd both seen combat.

When I got to the backup bridge, the frigate's control
center, I saw that of course Captain Desai was our pilot, right back where she
first flew a starship. "Colonel," she said, half turning in her seat,
"we're ready to depart."

"Dropships are secured?" I asked. The 
Flower's

two landing bays were crammed with a pair of Thuranin dropships, packed full of
supplies we needed for survival on Newark. The Thuranin dropships barely fit in
the Kristang frigate's landing bays, it took some slow, delicate flying to get
them in. Once inside, because they didn't match up with the Kristang docking
clamps, we had to tie the dropships down with cables. It wasn't an optimal
solution.

"They're secured," she reported.

I sat down and tightened the seat belt as far as I
could, it was designed for the larger frame of a Kristang. "Proceed when ready,
Pilot."

"Aye, aye, Colonel," she replied.
"Mister Skippy, drop artificial gravity, and release docking clamps,
please." There was a clanging sound and a vibration as the clamps released
the frigate, and artificial gravity faded away to nothing.

"Done," Skippy said, a touch of melancholy
in his voice. "Get out of here, I can't spare the power drain you monkeys
create. Joe, I'll talk to you soon. Remember my advice, be extra careful not to
do anything stupid down there."

"Got it, no problem. I will be extra stupid down
there."

"I said-, oh, forget it. I'm going to be busting
my ass up here fixing this ship, you'd better be around to see it when I'm
done."

 

We jumped in behind the moon again, even though the
moon at that time was on the other side of the planet from the Kristang
scavenger base. "Skip-" I stopped myself right there. I'd gotten so
used to asking him how a successful a jump was, I'd momentarily forgotten that
he was now on the other side of the star system. A message sent from the 
Flower

now would not be received by Skippy for almost an hour. I cleared the lump in
my throat and said "Skippy will be wondering whether we arrived safely,
please send him a message."

"Aye, aye," Desai acknowledged, and nodded
to her copilot to handle that task. "Jump was successful, Colonel, we are
off target by only fifty two kilometers." What she didn't say was that the

Flower's
 return trip would not be nearly as accurate. Skippy had
programmed the inbound jump for us, before we left the 
Flower
 to land on
Newark, we would be programming the frigate's return jump, and I would trigger
the jump remotely from the ground. On the return, we would be lucky if the 
Flower

emerged within a hundred thousand kilometers of the gas giant planet which the 
Dutchman

orbited. "Seems odd, doesn't it, sir?"

"What?"

"To not have Skippy available whenever you want
to talk to him. He talks to me constantly, sometimes I wish he would go away,
but now that he's not here, I miss him," she said, and turned her
attention back to the pilot controls.

"Me too," I said simply. It was odd, it felt
lonely. Ever since we escaped from the warehouse the Ruhar had been using as a
makeshift jail, he always been right there, in my ear, whether I wanted him or
not. Until the other end of his magic microwormhole arrives at Newark, we were
going to be out of communication, he could not transmit messages to us because
the Kristang would detect the signals. Unstrapping from the chair, I floated
free. "Let me know when you have the return jump programmed, I'm going to
assist releasing our dropships."

 

The dropships each made one trip down to the surface,
heavily loaded with supplies and the remaining crew. As soon as they were
empty, they would be remotely flown back up to the 
Flower
, and I would
trigger the return jump with my zPhone.

Chang was there when I walked down the ramp "I
can update you on the walk up to the caverns, Colonel," he offered.

Fighting my instinct as a proud grunt to help unload
the dropship, I reminded myself that I was a colonel for the moment, the
commander, and my responsibility was to the entire group, not only to the
people laboring to get cargo unloaded. I took a deep breath, it didn't seem
refreshing. The air smelled like mud and wet grass. Looking back, I saw the
wide skids of the dropships had sunk deeply into the wet soil. Skippy would no
doubt complain when he saw the underside of the dropships were splattered with
mud. After the dropships took off, we would need to fill in the holes the skids
had made. "Yes, that sounds good."

"You'll notice first the higher gravity, fourteen
percent does not sound like much, until you have been working for a
while." He pointed back to the dropship, where people in armor suits were
doing most of the heavy work, "then it hits you. Everything takes more
effort."

"It's like constantly wearing a backpack?"

"No, that's what I thought. It's worse. Lifting
your arms, without anything in your hands, gets tiring, because your muscles
aren't used to the extra effort. Simply sitting, if you're reading something on
your lap, your neck muscles are strained like you're always wearing a helmet.
Our medical doctors tell me that until we adjust, sleep will not be as
refreshing, because the extra weight will make us shift more during the night,
we will get sore more quickly from laying in one position. Standing will cause
blood to pool in our legs, our hearts will work harder to pump the same volume
of blood. Then there's the lower oxygen level."

"Yeah," I said, already feeling the lack of
oxygen. From where the dropship landed, to the entrance to the first cavern,
was only maybe a bit over half a kilometer, and the climb less than fifty
meters, I estimated. The terrain was rough, the canyon here narrowed, with a
stream cascading down rapidly over rocks, and we had to walk part of the way in
the stream bed, stumbling over wet, slick rocks. "My lungs are feeling
it," I acknowledged, and struggled to keep up with Chang. He saw my
distress and slowed, without saying anything that could embarrass me. I appreciated
that. "How long for us to adjust?"

"The doctors aren't sure. Normal adjustment to
high altitude is several days to a week, the difference here is the atmospheric
pressure is slightly higher than sea level pressure on Earth, there mix of
oxygen is lower. The doctors are concerned that we may be slow to adjust,
because we're taking in actually a greater volume of air with each breath, that
might fool our bodies into not realizing the oxygen deficiency. We will have to
monitor people, and ourselves, for signs of altitude sickness. We already have
people with headaches."

The list of people with headaches might include me.
Since our battle with the Thuranin destroyer squadron, I had not been sleeping
well, nor sleeping enough, there had been too much to do, and too much to worry
about. One thing I was hoping for on Newark was that, with nothing much to do
but remain concealed and wait for Skippy to fix the ship, we would have plenty
of time to catch up on sleep. Except Chang said we'd need to adjust to sleeping
in higher gravity. Great. "What else have we learned so far?" I
asked.

"We do have news that would be good," Chang
said, "except that it is useless to us. The life on Newark would be edible
to humans, if there was anything here to eat." He nudged a low-growing
shrub with a boot. "The sugars and proteins that make up plants on Newark
can be digested by humans. Unfortunately, all we've found so far is grass, some
shrubs, and a sort of lichen growing on the rocks. No land animal life, other
than microscopic organisms in the soil. In the stream, there are tiny things
like water insects, shrimp, and a sort of fish, nothing larger than a few
millimeters. Nothing we could potentially eat. Our science team," he
pointed to a group further up the canyon, up to their knees in the frigid
water, "is enjoying this immensely, even the people who are not biologists
are pitching in to collect samples."

I could see Dr. Venkman, the science team leader and
an astrophysicist, bending down to carefully scoop something out of the water.
She looked like she had just found a gold nugget, and she was excitedly
gesturing to the others. Dr. Zheng, the biologist, was actually kneeling in the
stream, which had to be freezing cold. She was saying something to Venkman,
with a look of rapturous joy across her face. A new biosphere for Zheng to
explore, and she was the first human biologist to examine it. And the first
human biologist to have access to Thuranin technology. She, for one of us, was
thrilled to be on Newark.

"It's great they are having fun, have they done
anything useful? Except, they did already determine our biology is compatible
with the native life." I was intrigued. "How did they do that so
quickly?"

"They used a Thuranin scanner that is designed to
do just that; tell the Thuranin whether a planet's organisms are compatible
with their own. Since human and Thuranin biology both use the same basic types
of sugars and proteins, it was simple. And the science team has helped us
validate that the caverns are suitable for us, you'll see, we've explored two
major caverns here," he pointed to two caves. One had a large, arched
opening, the other cave's entrance was narrow and tall.

The extra gravity was weighing me down already. It was
damp, chilly, with dark gray clouds overhead, and it had just started to rain.
This was going to be our home, for months. Fantastic. “Let’s get inside,” I
suggested.

 

Skippy made contact, of course, at 0224 hours on our
sixth day on Newark. He had told me it would take five days for the missile to
deliver our end of the microwormhole, and I had waited anxiously for a signal
from him all the previous day. Anything could have gone wrong up there, if
Skippy didn't contact us, we would be stranded on Newark, and never know what
had happened to the 
Flying Dutchman
. After sitting up waiting for a
signal on my zPhone, until well after midnight, I finally laid down on my cot
and went to sleep. Skippy's muffled voice came out of the zPhone under the
rolled-up jacket I was using as a pillow. "Ugh," I pulled the phone
out, glancing at the time code in the upper right corner, "hi,
Skippy," I whispered.

"Hey, Joe!" He shouted.

"Skippy!" I said in a harsh whisper.
"People are trying to sleep here. Everything Ok up there?"

"Oh, sure, Joe, everything is wonderful. I'll
tell you all about it. First, I-"

"Great. Everything is wonderful, so this can wait
until morning, right? I'll talk to you then," I said through a
jaw-stretching yawn.

"What? I want to talk-"

"Good night, Skippy. This biological trashbag
needs sleep."

 

In the morning, Skippy was initially peeved at me,
then he quickly cheered up. The missile had arrived on time the previous day,
then Skippy had to maneuver it into position, release the microwormhole and
test it. The 
Flower
, with the two dropships, had arrived safely back at
the 
Dutchman
, and Skippy was busy taking the ship apart. He was extra
chatty after being out of contact, and he wanted to see everything. After a
quick breakfast, I gave him a tour of the caverns. Major Simms was in the back
of the main cavern, still getting our small mountain of supplies unpacked.

"Good morning, Skippy," she said. "What
do you think of our beautiful new home away from home?"

"Oh, it looks great, you did a great job, looks
very cozy," Skippy said. "Major Tammy, are you sure you want to trust
Joe in a cavern you fixed up so nicely? He's not the best houseguest, there
have been incidents."

"Ha!" I laughed. "Like what?"

"How about the time you thought your neighbor had
a solid gold toilet, and it turned out you peed in the guy's tuba?"

"Skippy!" I laughed. "That never
happened," I explained to Simms, who didn't look entirely convinced.

Skippy snorted. "Oh, sure, if you say so, Joe.
That guy's still mad. You need to remember, tequila is not your friend."

I sighed. "Ok, maybe it did happen, in my
defense, there was a 
lot
 of tequila involved, I don't remember that day
at all." As far as I know, the whole tuba incident was a story somebody
made up to embarrass me. On the other hand, everyone in my hometown knows that
story, so maybe there was some truth to it. “There are no tubas down here,
Skippy, I think we’re safe.”

“Hmmm,” he said, “might be best to set up a litter box
for you, just in case.”

 

Simms had done an outstanding job of getting two
caverns ready for human occupation. Cots were set up for sleeping, with tarps
separating groups of cots so people had some privacy. There were tables and
folding chairs, although not enough for everyone to sit down and eat all at the
same time. Lights were attached to the ceiling, each of the two caverns would
be getting a field kitchen; meals would be less fancy than what we had become
used to aboard the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
, but we would not be surviving
entirely on MREs after the first couple days.

Conditions were not harsh, I was not concerned about
survival, or people’s health, even if the planet was chilly, damp and generally
unpleasant. I wasn’t even that concerned about the inevitable boredom. The
science team had plenty to occupy them; studying Newark, and going through the
mountain of data we had collected on the voyage so far. The special forces
would no doubt be using Newark as an opportunity to train in a heavy gravity,
low oxygen environment, and to gain additional experience with powered armor
suits. Keeping the pilots busy would be more of a problem, we hadn’t been able
to bring down any type of slight simulator gear, so they would have to make do
with flight manuals. Some of the pilots, and special forces, had already
volunteered to collect samples for our biologists, I needed to encourage that
spirit of teamwork.

After a mostly decent first night of sleep, when I got
used to my cot, and the heavier gravity, I awoke early. Tiptoeing across the
cavern, carrying my boots, I got a cup of coffee, and went outside to sit on a
rock and put my boots on. It didn’t surprise me at all that Sergeant Adams
appeared silently behind me. “Where are you going, sir?”

Taking a sip of coffee, I said “Nowhere special, Sergeant.
Just up to the rim, so I can get a view of our cozy little canyon here. Hoping
to see a sunrise.” That last seemed unlikely, the sky was mostly clouds, and
from the wet rocks outside the cavern entrance, it had rained again overnight.
The science team was trying to figure a weather forecast from the satellite
data, they weren’t confident of understanding Newark’s climate that well until
we reconnected with Skippy.

“No one goes outside alone, sir. Commander’s orders.”

I had given such an order, through my XO. “Sounds like
a wise commander.”

“Jury’s still out on that one, sir,” she said with a
grin I could barely see in the dim light, “he’s doing Ok so far.”

“You ready?”

She held up one foot, for me to see her boot.
“Always.”

Because Adams had landed with the first wave, on the
very first dropship, she knew her away around. The canyon wall was steep,
especially near the top, without Adams it would have taken me forever to find
my way up to the canyon rim. Someone had scouted a route to the top already, there
was a rope to hold onto for the final climb to the top, it was less steep than
I expected.

There was a glimmer of light on the eastern horizon,
the satellite view from my zPhone screen showed patchy clouds overhead, solid
cloud cover with rain to the west, and slightly less clouds to the east. It was
possible I could see a sunrise, my first morning on Newark. That, I would take
a good sign. “Hey, S-” I began to say.

“Sir?” Adams asked.

“Nothing,” I said, embarrassed. “I was about to ask
Skippy for a weather forecast. It’s automatic by this point.”

She nodded. “I know what you mean. On the ship, I
can’t get away from him. Now, I miss him already.”

“Me too.” We sat silently for a while, watching the
light grow as the local sun approached the horizon. With the increasing light,
I could faintly see figures moving about on the floor of the canyon below us.
The SpecOps team commanders had asked me for permission to run early in the
mornings, I ordered them to skip this first morning, until we could scout the area
on foot in daylight. It didn’t surprise me they had gotten up early anyway, to
exercise in the canyon. Inevitably, some of them were going to climb to the
canyon rim, and the silence would be disturbed. Before I missed the
opportunity, I cleared my throat. 
“Can we talk for a minute?”

She turned to look at me, in the predawn darkness, her
face illuminated only by the glow of the unseen sun. “If you are going to tell
me you think I’m cute, I already know that. Also, I would punch you. Sir.”

“Uh,” I said stupidly, not knowing what else to say. 

 “Other than that, I could use someone to talk to
also,” she added, saving me further embarrassment.

“Why did you come back out here?” I asked quietly.

“We’ve already had this conversation, sir. Skippy saved
our whole planet, and we made a deal with him-”

“No, Adams. 
I
 made a deal with Skippy. Not
humanity, not America, not you. 
Me
. I needed to go back out with Skippy,
and we need enough crew to get his magic radio. That doesn’t mean you needed to
come along on this fool’s errand. You’ve done enough.”

“Marines never quit, sir. And we don’t stop until the
mission is done. This mission isn’t done, unless I missed a briefing along the
way.”

She wasn’t going to answer my question, not really, so
I tried to change the subject. “Why did you join the Marines? The truth is, I
joined the Army because I wanted to get out of my home town, and because my
father served. What I figured was, I’m in for a couple years, do my duty, get
money for college. When they rotated us back from Nigeria, I was hoping to stay
stateside for a while. Then the Ruhar hit us. Screwed up all my plans.”

“My mother was a Marine,” Adams explained.

“I didn’t know that,” I said. That fact was probably
in her personnel file, which I didn’t look at. Hadn’t needed to look at.

“She was a sergeant also. When she finished active
duty, she went into the reserves for eight years. After the Ruhar raid, she
volunteered again, when we came home, she was working security in Norfolk. My
father got a job in the area, they’re doing all right. When I told her I was
volunteering to go back out, she didn’t try to argue with me. My father did,
not my mother. She assumed all along that I was going back out. Back out, until
the job is finished, you know?”

“Yeah, I know.” The problem was, this mission might
never be complete, unless it involved Skippy leaving us, and the Dutchman
stranded in deep space. “Did your parents believe your cover story?”

“No. They didn’t say it, I could tell.”

“Same here. They knew not to ask. My father,” I
laughed, “wanted me to write, or something.”

“What did you tell him?”

“That I’d do my best.”

“You can’t ask for more than that, sir.”

“I’m worried that somehow I’ve used up all our luck
out here. This mission has been nothing but bad luck so far.”

“Skippy says there is no such thing as luck,” she
reminded me.

“Skippy says a lot of things,” I cautioned her. “He
doesn’t always know what he’s talking about.”

“I have faith that we’ll get out of this, somehow.
That you will get us out of this, somehow, and get us back to Earth.”

“Oh, great. No pressure on me, then.”

“If you didn’t want any pressure, sir, you shouldn’t
be wearing those silver eagles,” she said. “Hey, look, sun’s coming up!”

And so it was. There were patchy clouds on the eastern
horizon, enough that we couldn’t see the full disk of the local sun. We could
see enough. “Skippy also says there are no such things as omens, either. I
think he’s full of shit about that. This,” I pointed to the sunrise, “I’m
taking as a good omen.”

 

By the end of our first week on Newark, we had settle
into a routine. Each morning, I got up early, meaning 0530, to run with a
SpecOps team. To avoid playing favorites, I joined a different team each
morning. By two weeks in, the teams had started to mix; Smythe, Chang and I
wanted the teams to learn from each other, and to bond as one team, not by
nationality. Waking up at 0530 was a luxury, the sun didn't rise over the
horizon until around 0600, and I didn't want people stumbling around in the
dark, unless we were specifically conducting night training.

That morning, I ran with a mixed team of SEALs and
French paratroopers. As usual, I was dragging in the rear, although it was
encouraging that after a ten mile run, I finished only a hundred yards behind.
It rained the whole time, I was eager to get out of my wet clothes and put on
something dry, if not completely clean. Laundry facilities on Newark were
rudimentary, despite the best efforts of Major Simms. 
"Oh,
man," I said with a shiver, "now that we stopped running, I'm chilled
to the bone. Anybody want a hot chocolate?" As soon as the words were out
of my mouth, I regretted them. These were super-fit soldiers and sailors who
just finished a hard training run, not little children playing in the snow.

“That sounds great,” Lt Williams said, to my surprise,
and other people nodded general agreement. Since our little talk in my office,
I had warmed up to Williams, although Skippy was still suspicious, and referred
to him as Baldilocks.

We got hot chocolate made, from a mix of course, and
not as good as homemade. It was hot, it was chocolaty
 and it was better
than being outside in the rain. Other people wandered over to join us,
including Sergeant Adams. It became like an impromptu party, only it was early
morning, and we had cocoa instead of alcohol.

Williams lifted his mug and asked, "hey, you
think maybe before they decided to sell a hot chocolate mix as 'Quik', did they
test market a product called 'Slow'?"

I laughed. "For when you're not in a hurry?"

"Yeah," Williams said, "like, they give
you a cocoa bean and a stalk of sugar cane? You make your own cocoa
powder." That drew a laugh from the group.

"Do-it-yourself hot cocoa?" I asked.
"My father used to joke about our neighbors who bought a do-it-yourself
kit for a full set of oak furniture, cheap."

"What's that?" Williams asked.

"For ten dollars, you get," I said while
laughing at my own joke, "an acorn and a saw."

That got a big laugh.

"Waiting for an acorn to grow into an oak tree,
would still be faster than some contractors out there," Williams said
sourly. "My parents gave a contractor a deposit to remodel their kitchen,
back before Ruhar raided Earth. So far, all he's done is tear out half the
cabinets and disappear. That's why I really came out here," he added with
a grin, "the contractor is apparently not on Earth, so I figure he must be
out here someplace. I'm going to hunt him down and drag him back to my parents'
kitchen."

“Yeah,” I said, “I know what you mean. My uncle hired
a contractor to build an apartment above his garage. The guy tore the roof off,
covered it with a blue tarp. Then he had to wait for some supplies, then he
hurt his back, or some crap like that. When it got to be November, the tarp
started leaking, my uncle said screw it, and called my father and me. The three
of us worked nights and weekends, including over Thanksgiving. Working in a
garage with no roof, in late November, made me want to punch that contractor,
if I ever met him. Anyway, it rained all Thanksgiving weekend, we had a roof on
by that time, but no heat in there. Reminds me of the weather on this miserable
planet.”

"Hey Joe," Skippy said from the zPhone on my
belt, "look on the bright side. With this cold crappy weather, you don't
need to worry about having a beach body this summer."

"Yeah," I rolled my eyes, "that's what
I was worried about."

"You know, all that shaving, and plucking and
waxing," Skippy mused.

"Skippy, it's none of your business what the
women here-"

"Oh, I was talking about you, Joe."

"Very funny."

"Hey, that reminds me, I've been meaning to ask
you, Joe. Why do you shave down there in the shape of a lightning bolt?
Wouldn't a question mark be more appropriate for you?"

"Lightn- I don't shave anything!" I
protested as people began laughing. Adams slapped the table, and had tears
rolling down her cheeks she was laughing so hard.

"Question mark-" Adams gasped, she had to
hold the table not to fall off her chair.

"Oh," Skippy said innocently, "shoot,
sorry Joe, is this one of those privacy things you talked to me about? Don't
worry, your secret is safe with me," Skippy said, in a cavern full of
people.

"I don't shave down there," I said through
gritted teeth. If I could, I would have strangled that beer can right then.

"Aha, Ok, got it. Riiiiiight, you don't."

"I'm serious, Skippy."

"Um, I'm getting mixed signals here, Joe."

"Can we drop the subject?"

"What subject? See, I can be discrete."

I looked around the compartment at people who were
having a great laugh at my expense, and trying to avoid my eyes. "Why
couldn't I have just left that beer can on a dusty shelf?"

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER SIXTEEN

 

Mornings began with running, then breakfast. After
breakfast, I walked around, checking on people, making sure we had no problems
with supplies, that anyone injured or sick was being tended to. Generally
letting people know that I cared. After lunch, I had free time, which I was
using to study how to fly the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
. Skippy called me
as I was learning about the flight controls. 
“Joe, it’s admirable that you are
learning to fly, are you sure you’re not overdoing it? You’re training with the
special forces units, you have all the administrative BS to deal with, and
you’re way behind on your officer training.” It surprised me that he didn’t
make a snarky joke about how I was learning to fly, because I had nothing else
to do.

“Can we be serious for a minute, Skippy? This will
only take a few minutes. A one hundred percent, dead serious, human to advanced
being conversation.”

“Hmm. 
A
 minute is not the same as 
a few

minutes. Tell you what, Joe, I’ll give it a shot, and I’ll pay as much
attention as I can, depending on how interesting what you have to say is.”

“Fair enough. Here’s the truth; I am learning to fly,
because I want to be able to pilot the 
Dutchman
 all by myself. Skippy, I
want to make a deal with you, and this is the serious part. We came out here,
not knowing what will happen when you contact the Collective. Before people
signed on, I told each one of them there is a very good chance we will not be
returning, that the ship will not be able to return, after you contact the
Collective and leave us.”

“Ok, I don’t like where this conversation is going,
Joe. We already have a deal. Your home planet is safe, I shut down the
wormhole.”

“Yes, and we are eternally grateful-“

“Doesn’t sound like it, if you now want to make a new
deal with me.” His voice wasn’t the usual light-hearted Skippy that I knew.

“My fault. Deal was not the right word. What I am
asking for, Skippy, is a favor. Let me explain what I want, and you can decide
whether to do this favor for me.”

“You ask a favor from me?” He said that in a hoarse,
scratchy voice. “For the moment, I will refrain from making the humorous
Godfather references that you know I am dying to say, so make it quick.”

“Thank you. What I want, what I would like, is that
after you contact the Collective, before you leave us, we take the 
Dutchman

back to Earth, and drop off the crew. Then, you and I take the ship back out.
Since, in this scenario, you’ve already located the Collective, you only need
me to fly the ship for you, we don’t need additional crew to help. It would be
finishing like we started, Skippy, just you and me, one last time.”

“Huh. Interesting. What’s in it for you, Joe? I’m
curious.”

“What’s in it for me is, I’m in command of this ship,
I’m responsible for the lives of my crew. It’s my duty to bring them back
safely, if I can. If you want to be cynical about it, what’s in it for me is
avoiding a guilty conscience.”

“Wow. Ok, I will think on that a while.”

“Thanks. Is this one of those things where you have to
think on it, and you already did that between saying ‘a’ and ‘while’?”

“That would be a no, Joe. This isn’t simple high-order
mathematics; this is a moral question. Also a practical one. I will consider
it.”

 

To my surprise, Skippy didn’t give me an answer the
next day, or the day after that. Either he was still considering it, or his
answer was something I didn’t want to hear, and he was sparing my feeling while
I was on the cold, miserable planet. My thinking was that I’d ask him about
again after we were back aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
.

In the meantime, I stuck to my routine. Get up, go
running with a SpecOps team. That morning, I ran with the Chinese team, and
Captain Xho had planned a very tough ten kilometer run up and down steep hills.
It was a struggle, my lungs were burning, my breathing ragged and my legs felt
like rubber. The Chinese took pity on me, and paused at the top of a hill.

Captain Xho knelt on the ground, broke a small branch
off a shrub, and examined it closely. After looking at it and sniffing, he
touched a finger to the place where he'd broken it off, then tasted a tiny
sample of the sap or whatever it was.

"Should you be doing that?" I asked him.
"Is that safe?" My concern was heightened because the plant life on
Newark was edible to humans, perhaps the poisons could affect humans also.

"Yes, it's safe,” he replied, “the science team
tested these plants. They're not edible to us, they're also not poisonous. If
we brought goats with us, they could eat these grasses and shrubs, the lichen
also. Goats will eat anything," he said with a grin. "I was
thinking," he said as he held the piece of shrub up to examine its bark,
"how useless much of our training on Earth was."

"How do you mean?" I asked.

"Part of our training, for Chinese Army special
forces, is to live off the land. We are trained to identify edible, and
poisonous, plants and animals. We are expected to survive, on our own, for
weeks, even months, in different habitats; jungles, deserts, forests, the
Siberian tundra. Drop me almost anywhere in the world, and I can find something
to eat, I can make tools and clothing, all the things needed for independent
survival. Now, here," he gestured to the horizon with the branch,
"all that training is useless. There is not a single thing to eat on this
entire planet, and no animals to use for furs, skins, nothing. Ha!" He
laughed.

"It wasn't all useless," I assured him.
"You learned to improvise, to think on your own, to keep a positive
attitude. And to adapt. We've all had to adapt, and I think we've done well. I
wish," I said, massaging my aching right calf muscle, "that my body
adapted to this extra gravity and low oxygen, as well as we have all mentally
adapted to our situation."

"Perhaps you are right, Colonel," Xho said,
flinging the branch down the hill. "Let's see how we adapt now to running
down this hill, and up the next one."

"Oh," I groaned, "this is going to be
fun. Not."

 

Part of being the commander was to check on every
person on Newark, I tried to talk with each group at least twice a week. That
morning, it was the science team’s turn, and I wandered over to where Dr.
Venkman was doing something at a table that held a pile of scientific
instruments. “Good morning Doctor,” I said, “how is the science going?”

"Good, good. We are currently struggling with a
puzzle. Some aspects of the biology here make no sense."

"Like what? Keep in mind, I'm not a
biologist."

Venkman laughed. "Neither am I. The biology department
people treat me as a mascot, or a gofer. I don't mind one bit, this is
fascinating. I took a biology course in college because it was required, now I
wish that I'd paid more attention."

We did not have a biology 'department', Venkman was
still thinking in academic terms, I knew what she meant. "My last biology
course was as a sophomore, maybe my freshman year of high school." The
fact that I hadn't taken a biology course in college, because I hadn't yet gone
to college, wasn't mentioned. She knew it, I knew it.

“Here is the problem, in the simple terms that were
explained to me. Look at this, tell me what you see,” she pointed to her iPad,
which was hooked up to a fancy Thuranin imager microscope thing that we’d
brought down from the 
Dutchman
. Under the imager was a stick, a small
branch from one type of small shrub that grew everywhere on Newark. Everywhere
that wasn’t covered by ice, or ocean. Or rocks.

I used my fingers to pinch the image and zoom out,
then zoomed in to enhance the image. The imager was impressive, I kept going,
just to experiment how detailed it could get, until I was seeing individual
cells, then inside the cells. Venkman shifted her feet beside me, I took that
as a cue she was growing impatient with my playing around. Bringing the image
back to where I started, I stared at the branch, or twig or whatever it was.
“It’s a branch from one of the shrubs out there.”

“Yes, I meant, what do you see here?” She pointed to a
small bump, a raised area of bark, with a tiny scar of a slightly darker color.
This time, I put some thought into it. “Looks to me like that is where a leaf
broke off.”

“Close. The biologists tell me there was a flower
there. A tiny, vestigial flower, a bud that doesn’t develop into a full flower,
because the plant does not any longer put energy into growing flowers.”

“Huh.” Even now that I knew what I was looking at, it
didn’t mean anything to me, I couldn’t tell the scar had been from an
undeveloped flower falling off, it could have been a leaf for all I knew. “I
read somewhere,” hopefully that sounded more impressive than the truth that I’d
seen it on TV, “that some big snakes, like pythons, have tiny rear legs under
their scales. Snakes evolved from lizards, they used to have legs before they
started, slithering on the ground.”

“Correct,” Venkman said with a smile. “Along the way,
in snakes, the gene that causes legs to develop has become switched off. Here,
with these shrubs, we haven’t made any progress in analyzing their DNA, of
course, what we do know is these plants used to have flowers, but since flowers
are no longer useful, the plants have stopped growing them fully.”

“Ok. The part that doesn’t make sense, is it that
plants no longer need flowers now, or that they used to need flowers?”

“Both.”

It pissed me off a little that the great Doctor
Venkman was toying with me, instead of giving me a straight answer.

Maybe she saw a flash of irritation on my face,
because she added “I didn’t get it either, we are not biologists, that is for
certain. The biology team explained that a plant which used to have flower, and
now does not, means that plant used to rely on animals, like insects or birds,
for pollination. Typically, an animal goes from a flower on one plant, picks up
pollen as it eats the nectar the flower provides, and deposits that pollen on
another plant, when it visits the flowers there.”

“Like bees, right? There are no birds or insects on
Newark.”

“Precisely the problem. Plants here would not have evolved
flowers, unless there used to be animals to use the flowers. The purpose of
flowers, their color and scent, is to attract animals. There are no animals, no
land animals, and certainly no flying animals, today. Plants therefore no
longer waste energy growing flowers, it appears they now use the wind to
disperse pollen.”

“Where did all the animals go? Oh,” I got it in a
flash of insight, “Newark must have been warmer in the past.”

“Much warmer. This area, near the equator, should have
been very warm, even tropical.”

“So, the planet is in an ice age now?”

“A major, catastrophic ice age. We know from data
downloaded from the Kristang satellites that it snows even at the equator here,
depending on the season. I mentioned it to Skippy, the science team asked him
about it, he replied that is mildly interesting, and he may devote some
processing resources to the climate question, when he is done repairing our
starship.”

“An ice age? How did that happen?”

“We don’t know. That is one of the many mysteries
about this world.”

 

Running in the mornings with SpecOps teams was good
for me, both physically and to familiarize myself with the people under my
command. It was such a good idea, that it gave me another good idea. 
"Good
evening, Doctor Zheng,” I said, acting as if I had casually dropped by the
table she was using as a makeshift laboratory. Plant samples and vials of soil
and water covered the table, all of it carefully labeled. I knew, because I had
helped her gather some of the samples. "Your personnel file says you are a
triathlete, before you signed on with us?"

She looked up at me in surprise. "Only halfs, I
competed in two or three half Ironmans a year, never had time to train for a
full one"

"
Only
 a half Ironman. That's what, seventy
miles?"

"Seventy point three." Of course she knew
the distance to the tenth of a mile, she also knew the exact times of her last
five or so races, that's how serious endurance athletes were. Anyone who
competed in multiple half Ironmans every year was, in my view, a serious athlete,
considering the training time they put in every week.

"You have a doctorate in biology, you are also
a," I almost said 'real', "a medical doctor. You were a surgeon? You
practiced as a surgeon?"

"Yes, I was a surgeon for six years, then I got
into medical research, that's when I went back to university for a second
doctorate in biology. You know that Colonel, it's part of the reason I was
selected for the science team. As a backup medical doctor, in case the Thuranin
medical technology fails, or is unavailable. Like now."

"We are grateful to have you here on Newark with
us." So far, there had not been a need for a medical doctor on Newark, I
wasn't expecting that happy situation to continue for the length of our stay.
Extra gravity, low oxygen, damp, cold conditions, living under ground, boredom
poor morale, all of those factors could lead to misjudgments and accidents. If,
when, that happened, we would need human doctors. "You have continued
exercising aboard the 
Dutchman
." That wasn't a question, I'd seen
her in the gym.

"As much as we can, yes, it's not like we can go
for a fifty kilometer bike ride, or an open water swim. Why are you asking
this, Colonel?"

"Because," I explained, "if our special
forces ever need to go into action on Newark, they will need a real doctor with
them. They have two medics, guys who went through a crash course before we left
Earth, that's no substitute for a real doctor. That means a doctor who is
capable of going into action with them, not participating in the fighting, I
mean traveling with them wherever they go. While I don't expect our SpecOps
soldiers will see combat here on Newark, I do believe in being prepared.
Sergeant Adams, you know Sergeant Adams?" She nodded. "She and I have
been training with SpecOps teams in the mornings. You would not need any of the
hand to hand combat, or weapons training, you would need to run, march with a
pack, learn to climb, and also to lift weights. Would you be willing to do
that? I'm not talking anything crazy, like getting bounced out of bed at 0300 for
a ten mile run, you only need to participate in simple endurance training. If a
SpecOps team has to go somewhere, they're likely to be going on foot, and
they'll need a qualified doctor with them. The bonus to you," I added,
"is getting out of these caverns every day. It's not the most pleasant
weather out there, it is a change of scenery from this," I pointed at the
gray rock ceiling.

"What about Doctor Rouse?" She asked.
"Or Tanaka?"

She didn't ask about Suarez, who was an experienced
doctor and molecular biologist, and was also 58 years old and not someone I
could picture going on a twenty-mile hike with special forces.

"Tanaka said yes when I asked him this morning.
Rouse is a swimmer, not a runner, and he got a mild ankle sprain yesterday,
twisted it walking in the stream bed."

"Me and Tanaka?"

"And me, and Sergeant Adams. For training with a
SpecOps team. Doctor, I know this planet is a tremendous opportunity for a
biologist, maybe a once in a lifetime opportunity, there's an entire biosphere
out there to be explored. This training will only take a couple hours each
morning, six days a week. I promise that when we're out running, or on a hike,
and you see something you want to get a sample of, we will stop."

"Can I think about it, Colonel?"

"Sure. If you're in, we're going out for a run at
0800 tomorrow."

"Oh," she said, surprised, "I thought
you'd be starting earlier."

"No, I don't want people running in unfamiliar
terrain when it's dark, the last thing we need is sprained knees and broken
legs down here. SpecOps teams will be able to conduct night training once a
week, to maintain proficiency, you won’t have to go with them. Again, I do not
expect any military action while we are on Newark, I want to avoid that except
under extreme circumstances. Think about it, please, and let me know in the
morning."

 

Because of the austere conditions on Newark, we made
an extra effort to gather as many people as we could in the main cavern for the
evening meal. The mood was tense and glum, everyone, including myself, was
afraid Skippy would be ultimately unable to repair the 
Dutchman
, and
we'd be stuck on an ice planet until our food ran out. To lighten the mood, I
tapped a fork on my coffee mug to get people's attention. Knowing Skippy was of
course listening, I cleared my throat and said "I have an announcement.
Skippy, hey, when we were in the fire fight, surrounded by that Thuranin
destroyer squadron, you told me something that surprised me. You've grown 
fond

of us monkeys?" No way could I let an opportunity like this slip by. 
"How did that happen?"

"Oh, man, I should have known you wouldn't let
that slide," Skippy responded. "I lowered my expectations, is all.
Lowered them until they hit the ground, I dug a hole, and when I hit bedrock I
got a big drill and punched down as far as I could, and when the drill ran out
I jumped up and down on my expectations to squish them some more, and finally I
took a big steaming dump on my expectations, and filled in the hole."

"Uh huh. So, long story short, you totally love
us," I said. People chuckled.

"Ugh, I hate my life," Skippy grumbled.

"Ski-pp-y loves us, Sk-ipp-y loves us, Ski-"

"Shut up. Damn it, why didn't I jump us into that
star?"

"Because then we wouldn't have this quality time
together, Skippy."

"Exactly. Plenty of stars out there to jump
into."

"We love you too, Skippy." People laughed
out loud.

"Damn it, I long for the good old days when I was
buried on Paradise, taking a nice, long, peaceful dirt nap," he grumbled.
"Why did those stupid lizards have to dig me out of the ground?"

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN

 

Four weeks into our idyllic tropical vacation on
Newark. I got a call. "Colonel," came the voice of Sergeant Adams in
my zPhone earpiece, "there's something you need to see over here."

"Trouble?" I brushed off my hands, as I'd
been helping dig to enlarge one of the back caverns of the lower cave. The rock
here was crumbly, that scared me about the cavern's integrity, but a couple
feet down we hit a solid rock like granite. If we could clear out all the
crumbly rock, we'd have a lot more space. Simms had offered to move some of our
stack of supplies out of the main cavern, if we could find a safe, dry place.

"Not exactly,” she replied. “Not at the
moment."

"Where are you?" I was intrigued.

"The cathedral complex, sir." She meant a
large cavern that, to some people, looked like a cathedral, with a large
entrance flanked by tall, column-like stones. The entrance had once been much
smaller, until the roof collapsed under the crushing weight of snow and ice
eons ago, or so our science team speculated. We had looked into the cathedral
complex as a possible habitat, but the entrance chamber afforded us little
cover, and large solid stones blocked the way into caves further under the
hills. I'd given permission for people to recon the place, in case we could
make something of it, the cathedral was conveniently located less than two kilometers
up the canyon.

Still, it was a long walk, in heavy gravity, and low
oxygen, and it would be getting dark soon. ""You can't give me a
hint, Adams?"

"You'd really best see this for yourself sir.
It's important."

Adams knew that because of our history, she could push
me further than other people could. As a colonel, I could have ordered her to
tell me what was going on. I didn't, I trusted her judgment instead.

Going to the cathedral, with darkness approaching,
meant walking up the canyon floor, sometimes splashing knee-deep through the ice
melt stream that meandered from one side of the canyon to another. That afternoon,
for the first time in three days, it wasn’t raining. It was cloudy, bleak,
chilly, with a stiff wind blowing straight into my face down the canyon.
Looking in front, then behind me, there wasn’t another human in sight, everyone
was safely tucked into our caverns except for the team excavating the cathedral
complex.

I paused to zip up my jacket against the wind, and
stared down into the stream. There were tiny animals in the water, I’d seen
them in the science team’s microscopes. They were hardy creatures, and I felt
sorry for them. If the science team was right, and I’d seen their evidence with
my own eyes, Newark had once had abundant life. There had at least been flying
insects or something similar, whatever had spread pollen from flower to flower.
Then the planet had somehow become locked in an ice age. It was now a frozen,
chilly, icy, rainy, thoroughly miserable place, but once it had been a decent
place for life, at least around the equator. Likely, I would never see Newark
again after we left, and I couldn’t imagine another species was choosing the
planet for a colony.

A gust of wind shook me out of my daydream. I tried to
step on rocks to cross the stream, but the rocks were slippery, and I skidded
off into the cold water up to my knees. Crap. Whatever reason Adams wanted me
at the cathedral, it had better be damned good.

 

Adams was waiting for me at the entrance with a big
flashlight. Even with Skippy controlling the satellite images, we didn't like
to use artificial light in the open, it was too risky. Whatever she wanted me
to see, it didn't have her scared. The expression on her face was, I thought,
excited. And sad. A deep sadness. "What's the big secret, Adams?"

She turned and walked toward the back of the
cathedral, toward the large, flat stone we called the altar. "You'll see,
sir."

We had to clamber over stones, and squeeze around a
large boulder that had once been part of the ceiling, I had never been this far
back into the cavern before. The science team, with a lot of help from soldiers
who were bored and had nothing else to do, had excavated a huge pile of stones
that had blocked the way into what we thought might be a much larger chamber. There
was not yet any large cavern, there was a path has been made to get by the big
boulder. Then we had to walk steeply up through a long, low-ceilinged passage, and
into a tall, narrow chamber. As I crouched down in the passage, nearly scraping
my head on the ceiling, I grumbled “Adams, if this is surprise party for my
birthday or something, there had better be a big goddamn cake.”

There was no cake. There was a well-lit chamber,
square, roughly ten meters on a wide, and it was tall, perhaps six meters. It
was square. 
Square
. Like, almost precisely. In some areas, there were
indentations in the walls, that had once been filled with some sort of brick
and plaster, the plaster had weakened over time, and some bricks had tumbled
onto the floor. On the floor, there was a stacked pile of bricks, and another
stack of carved stones. Carved. Artificial. None of what I saw could have been
natural. I gasped, and looked up at Adams. She nodded. "I know, sir. Dr. Graziano
found it this morning."

"And you waited until now to tell me?"

Graziano explained. "We wanted to be certain,
that these stones don't simply give the appearance of having been carved. These
stones are old, Colonel. 
Old
. They would have flaked off and looked like
much of nothing, if this chamber hadn't kept them dry all this time."

"All what time? How long ago?" If there were
other sentient beings on Newark, I wanted to know immediately.

He shrugged. "I don't know. Not yet. I'll need
Mr. Skippy to assist with the analysis. Very old. Hundreds of thousands of
years, at the very least. Probably more." He ran a hand lightly along one
carved edge. "Whoever made this, they are long gone from here.”

“Huh,” I said, glancing around the rock chamber. The
years had eroded it somewhat, still I could see the stone walls had been
shaped, smoothed, by someone’s hand long ago. “So, what, you think some aliens
took shelter here? They got stuck on Newark, and created this place to take
shelter, while they waited for rescue?” Enlarging a chamber is something that I
could see a stranded starship crew doing, especially if they didn’t have
powercells for heat like we did. Why they would carve stones into blocks made
little sense. Why would they need to build a wall? “Were they Kristang?”

Graziano glanced at Adams, and she gave a little
shrug. “He doesn’t know,” she said to the scientist. “I thought he should see
for himself.”

“We found it only a few hours ago.” Graziano explained
to me. “Come this way, please, Colonel Bishop.” He pointed to an opening in the
far wall that was so low, he needed to get on hands and knees and crawl. The
opening had at one time been blocked up by stones, which Graziano and his team
had carefully removed. I followed on hands and knees, with Adams behind me. Graziano
and Adams had lights, I should have brought one along. That was stupid of me,
it was growing dark outside anyway. The passageway we had to crawl through was
only twenty feet long, it soon opened up into another chamber, this one far
larger. It had also worked by sentient beings, the walls were smooth and
straight.

That wasn’t all. There were bones. Bones, and tools.
Bronze tools. Axes, shovels, spears, swords, arrowheads. The tools were mostly
upright in ceramic containers, with a few scattered on the floor, where their
ceramic containers had broken.

None of the bones were scattered, they were all
carefully laid on carved stone slabs. The bodies may have been dressed in fine
clothing, or wrapped in ceremonial cloth, now they were only bones. Some had
bronze shields laid atop them, some without. I knelt down to examine one set of
bones. Bipedal, like us. Two arms, two legs, a head with holes for two eyes,
and an opening for a nose that was more horizontal than humans. The leg bones
were heavy. And they were short, shorter than the average human. Shorter than
humans used to be, in ages past? I didn’t know.

The carvings on the slabs were eroded, their edges
rounded. I reached out to touch a carving, when Graziano coughed. “Sorry,” I
said guiltily, looking at the gloves he was wearing. “I wanted to see if these
carvings show what they looked like.”

“They do,” he pointed at one slab, where Doctors
Venkman and Friedlander were painstakingly clearing off accumulated dust with
soft brushes. Graziano led me over to a shield which had been removed from the
body it covered. The shield had been partly cleared of corrosion, exposing an
area which depicted a figure, in highly realistic detail. The figure stood on
two legs, it carried a sword in one hand, and some type of plant or branches in
the other. It was overall more squat and bulky than a modern human, and what I
thought at first was a helmet was, after close inspection, a bony ridge on top
of its head. I glanced between the bones on the stone slab to the depiction on
the shield, the bones also had a bony ridge. “They were shorter than us,” I
remarked without thinking.

“The higher gravity,” Graziano noted, “thicker bones,
also.”

“This was not a starship crew,” I said almost to
myself, considering the bronze tools. Surely any species advanced enough to
make starships would have tools of steel rather than bronze. Or they would have
tools constructed of composites or exotic materials. Not bronze. “These creat-”
almost I said ‘creatures’. These were not mere creatures. They created tools be
working metal. These were 
people
. “These people, were natives here. How
is this possible? On this frozen planet?”

“Yes” Venkman said, standing up to brush the dust off
her pants. “These were natives. Remember what I showed you about the plants
that used to have flowers? Newark used to be warmer, significantly warmer.
These people, as you say, are more evidence to support that conclusion.”

“And then, what?” I asked, peering intently at the
figure on the bronze shield. “The planet went into an ice age, and they all
died? Everything? Not only them, all planets and animals on land went extinct?”

“We don’t understand how,” Friedlander joined the
conversation, he was a rocket scientist on loan to UNEF from NASA. “We may
never know the mechanism, not unless we stay here and study this planet much
longer than we plan to.”

“They all died?” I couldn’t process that. An entire
species, and entire civilization, gone. Completely wiped out. “Because of an
ice age?”

“Yes,” Venkman replied. “This is not unprecedented.
There is genetic evidence that the total human population shrank to as few as
five or ten thousand people, around seventy thousand years ago.”

“The Toba catastrophy,” Graziano started to say.

“That is only one theory,” Friedlander interjected, “and
there is contradictory evidence.”

“Toba?” I asked, wondering if T-O-B-A was an acronym
for something.

“Toba was a supervolcano in Indonesia, it erupted
around seventy thousand years ago,” Venkman explained, “and left a thick layer
of ash around the planet. There is a theory that the Toba event caused a global
winter. And that event roughly coincides with a bottleneck in human genetic
diversity. The point, Colonel, is that we came close to humanity going extinct
perhaps several times. With the severe changes to temperatures on Newark, it is
not surprising that a relatively advanced civilization would not have been able
to adapt quickly enough to survive. Imagine if ice had advanced down from the
poles to the equator on Earth, during the time of ancient Egypt or Sumeria.
Would those peoples have been able to survive?” She shook her head.

“They all died,” I said quietly, and no one responded,
they all knew I wasn’t asking a question. “We are near the equator here, they
came here as the temperature dropped? To, what, try to survive in caves? Why
wouldn’t they have chosen the caverns we are living in now? The cathedral is
too open,” I pointed out. That’s why we weren’t living in it.

Graziano spoke first. “We think, Colonel, that what we
call the cathedral used to extend forward much further, we believe the canyon
outside did not exist back then. It was probably an ordinary stream on the
surface in that time. Over the years, glaciers advanced, retreated, advanced,
retreated again, over and over, and the ice and seasonal melt flooding carved
the canyon. The roof of the cathedral was underground back then, and with hot
springs around, these caverns would have been one of the last places the
natives,” he pointed to the dry bones, “could have survived the deep freeze.
They held out here, the last of their kind, until the food ran out, or diseases
took them. With the population clustered tightly together here, pathogens could
have spread widely, especially with these people stressed from severe cold and
poor nutrition.”

“The weight of the glacier collapsed the roof of the
cavern?” I didn’t like hearing that. If one roof could collapse, then the roofs
of our two caverns could be unstable, weakened by past glaciers.

“That is possible, yes, it is more likely that
seasonal flooding of the stream slowly wore away material above the cavern,
exposing the stones that formed the roof. It would have been weakened, water
gets in, freezes, causes cracks. The cracks widen, more water seeps in. It is a
slow process. Over the course of a hundred thousand years, perhaps a million
years, water is unstoppable.”

“Millions?” I asked, surprised.

“As of now, we don’t know,” Graziano admitted. “This
chamber was sealed until we broke in, the stones were set very closely
together, using almost no mortar to fill the gaps. Moisture and oxygen were
kept out, and this chamber is above the cathedral, it is protected from
flooding, We see marks of flooding on the walls of the cathedral chamber, the
flood marks reach only one third of the way up that low-ceilinged passageway
you climbed.”

I looked around the chamber. “They didn’t live in
here. This was a tomb. They left the bodies, and sealed it behind them.”

“We think so, yes,” Venkman said. “It may have been
one of the last things they did. Perhaps the very last thing. I would not be
surprised to find more bones, and more tools, beneath the floor of the
cathedral. The items here, and in the chamber before this one, were preserved,
because moisture and oxygen were kept out, after the chambers were sealed.”

“I can’t imagine this,” I said with complete candor. A
civilization, an entire species, moving steadily toward the equator as the cold
crept down from the poles, until they reached the furthest point they could go,
and it, too, began to freeze.

“No one can,” Friedlander said quietly.

 

News of the discoveries at the cathedral complex
spread like wildfire among our small population, and with news inevitably came
rumors. By the following morning, so many people wanted to visit the cathedral
complex that I knew I had to do something about it. Graziano, who had slept at
the cathedral overnight, had come back to the main cavern for more supplies
that morning, so I found him talking with Major Simms. "Doctor Graziano,”
I said, “could you put together a briefing of what we think we know at the
moment? There are a lot of rumors flying around, there's no reason for
disinformation."

Simms snorted when I said that. I knew what she was
thinking. "Sorry, Major," I offered, "there was a time when
disinformation was necessary, on Paradise. I couldn't tell the truth about
Skippy, without revealing it to the people who were staying behind. And we
couldn't risk them telling the Ruhar, or Kristang, or whoever is in control of
Paradise at the time. Besides," I gave a grin that I hoped would lighten
the mood, "that was a damned inspiring speech I made, right?"

Simms snorted. "It wasn't your speech, sir.
Frankly, given your, what little I knew of your reputation," she glanced
at me to gauge my reaction, "I was afraid the special forces mission you
claimed to be running would be some slap-dash operation, thrown together at the
last minute."

"Like going after an invading force with an ice cream
truck?"

"Yes, sir. I didn't know much about you, before
you fell out of the sky onto my base in a stolen Ruhar spaceship. All I knew
was, you did some rash thing on Earth, and got lucky, then you got promoted as
a publicity stunt for the Ruhar. Sorry, sir, that's what most people were
thinking, at the time."

"No apology needed, Major, I knew it was a
publicity stunt. I was afraid UNEF would have me going around giving speeches
to sell war bonds or something, before they assigned me to plant
potatoes."

Simms nodded. "That Dodo you flew in, that was
more convincing than any speech; being able to steal and fly an alien
spacecraft was impressive. Oh, and when you came out of the Dodo, stunned those
Ruhar, and they weren't able to shoot back. I saw that happen, one of those
Ruhar was totally shocked that his rifle didn't work. That, and the message
from UNEF HQ, that I now know Skippy faked," and her mouth turned down at
the thought of being manipulated.

"Sorry about that, it was necessary. If it wasn't
my speech, what convinced you to come with us?"

"The faked orders from UNEF HQ, and, you caught
us at the right moment. You said you were going to hit the Kristang, not the
Ruhar, we'd all heard rumors about what was going on back on Earth. I'd seen
fortune cookies myself, we got them regularly enough when we opened boxes at
the warehouse. You were the first UNEF officer who told us what we all wanted
to hear; that we were taking action against the Kristang. We also, especially
us in the supply corps, figured we didn't have much to lose."

"How's that?" I couldn't understand what she
meant by that last remark. 

"We knew, better than anyone else, how thin our
food stocks were getting back then," Simms explained. "You sent Chang
and Adams to the warehouse, to check on supplies, and they came back to the
Dodo saying supplies were adequate, right?"

That was a while ago, I had to pause to think back
that far. "Uh, sure."

"What they didn't know was the warehouse was a
lot more empty than it looked. My aide and I would go into the warehouse, late
at night, with a wheelbarrow of rocks, we used the rocks to fill food boxes
that we pushed to the back of the shelves. Then we'd fudge the inventory
records, so even my people didn't know how thin our supplies were. I gave orders
that we weren't to issue the last two boxes of anything with my direct
approval, so people didn't unknowingly issue a box of rocks to the field. When
we loaded up the Dodo, I made sure we got only real food containers, not
rocks."

That surprised me. "Major, I knew our food stocks
were running low, I had no idea-"

"HQ knew," she said. "They were closing
regional logistics centers, supposedly to consolidate operations as we cleared
hamsters by sector, the real reason is that HQ didn't want people to see empty
warehouses. You take what little supplies are left, concentrate the supplies in
a few logistics bases, and when people see those bases have plenty of supplies,
they think we're good. They didn't see the overall situation. My base was
scheduled to shut down in two weeks, before the Ruhar took the planet back. I
was sweating that, by the end of two weeks, I figured all we'd have left is
boxes of rocks. My CO knew about me faking inventory records, I got the idea
from an intel officer with UNEF HQ."

"Intel," I said sourly. "Yeah, I know
the type." As the words came out of my mouth, I realized that, however I'd
felt screwed by my experience with Intel operations, I'd done worse, much
worse. I had deceived people, concealed the truth, revealed only those parts of
the truth I felt was convenient at the time. All for a good cause, of course.
If I hadn't deceived people, we would never have gotten enough volunteers to
capture a Kristang starship, a Thuranin star carrier, and to raid an asteroid
base to get an Elder controller device to shut down the wormhole that gave the
enemy access to Earth. With me initially lying to people, Earth would still be
under the cruel control of the Kristang. It had all been worth it, I would do
it again without regret. That didn't make me feel any better about having done
it. Maybe all people who work in Intel feel that way, until they get used to
it.

"Sir," Williams spoke up to defend me,
"however you did it, we on Earth are very grateful. Things were getting
desperate. It was bad enough what the lizards were doing on Earth, it was
almost worse that we had no communication with the ExFor, we knew you had
landed on Pradassis, that's all the Kristang told us."

Simms and I shared a knowing look. "We didn't
hear anything from Earth," she said sadly, "until we got our first
fortune cookie. You know about the fortune cookies?" She asked the
question to Williams.

"Not until I read your debriefing," Williams
said, "that must have been a closely-held secret on Earth."

"And then the fortune cookies stopped,"
Simms said, "because the Kristang stopped bringing supplies from
Earth."

"Yes," Williams added. "We knew things
were going south for the ExFor, when the Kristang shut down the space elevator
in Ecuador. The thinking on Earth was, the only reason to do that was they
didn't need to ship a lot of supplies offworld anymore. There were rumors going
around that the entire Expeditionary Force had been wiped out, we knew the
Kristang on Earth were pissed about something, I guess that must have been the
Ruhar raid when your team shot down those two dropships, the Whales?"

"Could be," I nodded. "My parents told
me that they thought I was dead, it surprised the hell out of them when I
called."

"What was your cover story?" Williams asked.
"You didn't tell them the truth, did you?"

It surprised me that Williams didn't know the cover
story that UNEF had cooked up, until I remembered that he, and most of the
SpecOps people, had been selected less than two weeks before the 
Dutchman

departed, and those two weeks had been frantic eighteen hour days for everyone
involved. Although the entire original Merry Band of Pirates had all been given
the cover story, UNEF hadn't planned to release it to the public until after
the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
 left Earth orbit. "The cover story? Your
team wasn't read in before we left?"

"There wasn't time, sir. UNEF wanted us aboard
the 
Dutchman
 as soon as possible after we were selected. I think part of
that was operational security, we couldn't talk to people on Earth if we were
already in orbit."

That made sense to me, I remembered that UNEF had
insisted all communications to and from the 
Dutchman
 went through UNEF
HQ in Paris. Skippy, naturally, had ignored silly monkey regulations, as the
commander, I had done my best to comply with the rules, whether I liked it or
not. "UNEF’s cover story, it should have been released to the public on
Earth by now, is that the Merry Band of Pirates, you know, the original crew,
came back to Earth aboard a Thuranin ship, because the Thuranin were upset that
the Kristang on Earth were acting without authority. The public thinks we were
passengers on the ship, flown by Thuranin, and the Thuranin killed the Kristang
on Earth, because those lizards were ransacking the planet of an ally.
Governments thought it would be too much for the public to take, if they
learned that both the Ruhar and the Kristang are our enemies, that the entire
galaxy is hostile to humans. Hostile, with an overwhelming technological
advantage. For myself, I'm not sure the Ruhar are enemies, they seem more
likely to ignore us than bother conquering us. I also don't know that the Ruhar
would go out of their way to help us, they have enough on their plate. When I
was on Paradise, after the Ruhar took the place back, their deputy administrator
told me they had plans to sustain UNEF, for a time, until humans could grow
enough food for themselves. That's all great, it all depends on what happens
with the Ruhar's wider military campaign, really it depends on how the Jeraptha
fare against the Thuranin. If the Jeraptha suffer a major defeat, the Ruhar
won't have the resources to spare for a low-tech species like humans. UNEF has
a lot of mouths to feed on Paradise, and I'm sure most of the Ruhar there don't
feel like they owe humans anything."

"Do you trust the Ruhar?" Simms asked.
"You had more contact with them than I did." I had told her about the
intel the burgermeister gave to me, intel I had distrusted, intel Skippy later
told me was a hundred percent accurate.

"I trust that the burgermeister, the deputy
administrator, was sincere about what she told me," I said honestly.
"I don't trust whether she will be able to deliver, it's not only up to
her." I turned my attention back to Graziano. “Doctor?”

“Yes, I will create a summary of what we know to date.
It is not much,” he said, almost as an apology.

“We all understand that, Doctor. Do the best you can,
and, whatever resources you need, to learn more about the people who lived here,
you will have it.”

 

Graziano asked for more people, and more equipment, to
assist in excavating the cathedral complex. There was no need for me to request
volunteers, everyone wanted to help. Graziano’s problem was not lack of help,
it was restraining the volunteers’ enthusiasm for moving rocks and digging
soil. Skippy volunteered also, he assigned a submind to research what he could
about Newark, attempting to figure how a civilization could have arisen on such
a frozen planet. And what caused them to become extinct. He called me while I
was helping Doctor Zheng collect samples from a pond three kilometers from our
home canyon. "Joe, after you found those bones, the tools and the ruins, I
took a look at Newark, and I discovered that something is very wrong with this
star system."

"Wrong, beyond it being a crappy place to
live?"

"Very much so. Disturbingly so. I wasn't paying
attention before, because I'm busy enough repairing the 
Dutchman
 and
passively scanning for enemy starships, so I didn't bother to investigate this
star system beyond the basics. It didn't matter before. Now it does, very much.
There is no way a complex species, an entire civilization, could have evolved
on Newark, the way the planet is now. There are currently no land animals at
all, above the microscopic level. Clearly, the planet's climate has changed
radically. The star's output has not varied significantly within the last
several million years, that cannot be the reason for the climate changing so
radically. Since you found those perplexing ruins, I ran back a mathematical
model of the orbits of all seven planets, and the math tells me that something
disrupted their orbits around 2.7 million years ago."

"Wow. I read something like that in a book
once."

"Incredible."

"Yeah, a, uh, I think it was a star," I
tried to remember the details of that book, "I read this book a long time
ago, this rogue star passed close to the star system in the book, and its
gravity screwed up the orbits of all the planets."

"Astonishing."

"The people in the book had to leave their
planet, and go live on a planet they figured would end up orbiting this new
star, after it left their star system. Their original planet was going to be
ejected away from its star, or become uninhabitable or something. The writer’s
name was McDermott, McDevitt, something like that."

"Amazing. Absolutely unbelievable."

I paused. "I'm surprised you haven't heard of
this before, Skippy, it must happen sometimes, in the galaxy. I remember now,
the star was a brown dwarf. That's a star so small-"

"I know what a brown dwarf is, Joe, and yes,
wandering stars occasionally do disrupt the orbits of planets in star systems
they approach. That's not what I find astonishing."

Now he had me intrigued. "Then what is?"

"
You
 read a book?" He laughed.

Damn it, I should have remembered what an asshole he
is. "Yes, Skippy, I did."

"This was a comic book, I assume. Lots of
pictures."

"It wasn't-"

"Oh, sorry, I should have said 'graphic novel', I
don't want to upset the nerds."

"It was a real book, Skippy! And I've read more
than one book."

"Wow. So, 
both
 of these books you read,
did you have to go real slow, sound out the words as your finger slid along the
page?"

"Forget I mentioned it, please." Under my
breath I added "Asshole."

"I heard that."

"Can we go back to what you found about the
orbits of planets in this system? Was it a brown dwarf that caused it?"

"No, it wasn't a wandering star, or planet, of
any type. That would merely be interesting. The truth is, as I said,
disturbing. Perplexing. Frightening. Look at your iPad, I'll show you."

The iPad popped up a diagram of the star system, not
to scale I assumed, with eight planets all circling the star. Circling, not
oval-shaped loops. Newark was highlighted in blue, the gas giant in red.
"Skippy, why are there eight planets in his diagram, and I thought Newark
was the second one from the star?" The diagram listed Newark as the third
planet. I used my fingertips to zoom in the display to just the inner planets
to confirm; Newark was shown as the third planet. The new eighth planet was
close to the star, like Mercury. There was no such planet in the original
diagram Skippy had put on the main bridge display, back when he explained why
he set course for this system.

"This," Skippy explained, "is the star
system, 2.7 million years ago. Newark's orbit was nice and circular, it was
slightly further outward from the center of this star's Goldilocks Zone than
Earth is from its own habitable zone, so Newark would have been slightly cooler
overall. I would need ice cores to confirm, still, I am very confident in my
analysis. For many millions of years, Newark was reasonably similar to Earth in
terms of habitability, which explains how complex life forms could have arisen
there. Complex life forms, such as the sentient beings who built the ruins you
found."

Sentient beings. All dead. An entire species.
"What happened to this place?"

The iPad display began to move, planets circling in
their serene orbits. Then, Newark suddenly, by itself, moved outward. Its orbit
was still a circle, it was a bigger circle, further from the star. "Joe,
something pushed Newark out of its original orbit. The new orbit was beyond the
outer edge of the habitable zone. The planet began to rapidly freeze, more
rapidly than the low-tech species here could compensate for. They froze, and became
extinct, probably within less than one year. All of them."

"Holy shit. Oh my God."

"There was nothing holy about what happened here,
Joe." Skippy said with surprising vehemence.

"I agree. The new orbit, it was still a circle?
Why is it an ellipse now?" 

The speed of the display increased, and the orbits of
the planets began to wobble, disturbed from the graceful tracks they had
followed for a billion years. "Changing the orbit of Newark affected the
gas giant planet I am now orbiting. That had a cascading effect on the entire
system. The two gas giant planets in this system had a roughly two to one
resonance, like Jupiter and Saturn in your home star system; Jupiter orbits
twice for every one time Saturn circles your sun. When that resonance here was
disrupted, the orbits of the other planets were disturbed. The orbit of Newark,
and what is now the first planet, became elliptical. What was the original
innermost planet, I speculate it was a small, rocky body like Mercury, had its
orbit made so elliptical that it fell into the star, that is why there are now
only seven planets. Newark will eventually reestablish a circular orbit,
slightly closer to the star than its original track, I predict that will happen
within the next twenty million years. The ice will melt, and Newark will become
a pleasant place to live. Again."

A smartass remark popped into my head, about this
being a good time to buy cheap real estate on Newark. I squashed it silently.
An entire sentient species had died here, died horribly, their entire
civilization buried under a smothering blanket of snow and ice. There was
nothing amusing about what had happened. "How? What you showed me was
Newark moving on its own. That can't happen, right?"

"No, it can't. And, given the native species
primitive level of technology, it isn't anything they did, by accident or
otherwise. Joe," his voice dropped to a near whisper, "pushing a
planet like this took Elder-level technology."

"Wow. Wow." I pondered that a minute.
"You think the Rindhalu got hold of some Elder devices, and used it
here?"

"Not a chance," Skippy said, "the
Rindhalu hadn't even discovered fire 2.7 million years ago, it couldn't be
them. The Elders transcended long before that, and they wouldn't have done
something horrible like this. Joe, this scares the hell out of me. I have gaps
in my memories that are annoying, this goes beyond annoying. Something
significant happened in the galaxy, that I can't account for at all. This
cannot be possible, yet I can't deny the facts."

"Is there any chance your analysis is
wrong?"

There was an uncomfortable moment of silence.
"Joe, I'm not sure of anything right now. Based on the data, my analysis
is correct. However, I could be misinterpreting the data, or I could be missing
something, or my analytical functions could be faulty in ways that I cannot
detect. You know that I suspect something unknown is wrong with me."

"Skippy, I'm sure you're doing everything you
can."

"It's not enough." He actually sounded sad,
almost lost.

"Skip," I said. "Hey, getting real
here. I'm a dumb monkey, the best I can do is to be the best dumb monkey I can
be. You're an AI with intelligence and knowledge I can't even imagine. No
matter how smart you are, you can only do the best you can. You rescued my
entire species, without even stretching your abilities. No matter how
incredible you are, you can only do the best you can. Whatever is wrong with
your memories, it's not your fault."

“Thank you Joe, your words would be more comforting if
they weren’t being spoken by a flea-infested monkey.”

Damn it, common courtesy wasn't in Skippy's nature.
"This something you suspect is wrong with you, is that why you're such an
asshole?"

"Huh? No, that's me."

"No hope of fixing that, then?"

"I wouldn't count on it, no," he said. I
appreciated his honesty.

“Hey, well, maybe when you contact the Collective,
they will have answers for us, right? That’s what you want, answers.”

“Answers, like why I was buried in the ground on
Paradise, and how I got there? Answers like how Elder-level technology was used,
during a time when no intelligent being inhabited this galaxy. Answers like how
Elder technology was used for unquestionably evil purposes? Yeah, I want
answers like that.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN

 

"Joe Joe Joe Joe Joe! Wake up!" My zPhone
earpiece blared at me. Army training allowed me to snap upright on my cot,
mostly alert, one hand fumbling for the zPhone earpiece, the other hand automatically
holding a boot so I could stuff a foot into it.

"What is it, Skippy?"

"No immediate emergency, you can drop back to
Code Yellow."

"You scared the hell out me, it was almost Code
Yellow in my shorts, you ass. What is it that couldn't wait," I checked
the clock on the zPhone, "three and a half hours, until I was going to
wake up on my own?"

"Two things, both fairly important. Very
important, actually. Good news and bad news."

"Bad news first, please." Bad news meant I
might have to do something about it ASAP. Good news could wait this time. Until
morning, and a cup of coffee. Maybe two cups. I put the other boot on, there
was not going to be any more sleep for me that night.

"Of course,” Skippy agreed. “Two of the Kristang
leaders here were talking on their phones, one complained about how their
workforce is lazy and not moving fast enough, the other one, who I think is
their leader, said they need to move faster, because he expects a ship to pick
them up in the next sixty to eighty days."

"WHAT?! That is bad news." I stood up and
pulled pants on. Sleep could wait. "You told us they wouldn't have a ship
coming to pick them up for a year or more!"

"That was based on communications I intercepted,
yes. Based on this new information, I now suspect those communications were the
leaders lying to their workforce about the timeline for their departure. I now
believe that when the ship arrives, the six leaders plan to take the Elder
artifacts with them, and abandon their workers here to starve. This does
explain a discrepancy I have noticed; their food supply does not appear to be
sufficient to support their population for the official duration of their
mission. Before, my assumption was that the leaders at some point planned to
kill their workforce, in order to stretch their food supply."

All of which were things Skippy should have told me.
Or I should have inquired about. "You can't screw with that ship's
sensors, like you're doing with the satellites?"

"No, not through the microwormhole, the
connection doesn't have the bandwidth for me to transmit a submind. The
satellites don't have the capacity to store a submind anyway. And also, through
the wormhole, I can't activate the Thuranin nanovirus that is likely embedded
in the Kristang ship's systems."

This was going to be a problem, a very big problem.
"This new ship will be able to see us, then."

"Yup, very likely."

With pants and a shirt on, I could think more clearly.
"Damn it. All right, then we'll need to burrow underground, remove all
trace of our habitation from the surface, and hide until that ship goes
away." That was going to be difficult, our success would depend mostly on
the newly-arrived ship wanting to pick up the Kristang here quickly, and not
seeing any need for a serious scan of the planet's surface.

"Negative. No burrowing. Not only burrowing,
anyway."

"Why not?" I hoped he didn't have even worse
news for us.

"Because of the good news, Joe. We have an
awesome opportunity!"

Oh, crap. When you're in the military and someone
tells you about an 'opportunity', it's almost never good news for you.
"You found us a great deal on car insurance?"

"No! Even better! Joe, seriously, this is
awesome. Joe, they have an AI!"

"That's, uh, that's great, Skippy." What did
he think was awesome about that? All starships had an AI of some sort as their
central computing core. Even dropships had a type of AI running their
navigation system. So what if the lizards had an AI at their scavenger base?
They probably used an AI to figure out which Elder junk was valuable.

"You don't understand. While those two lizards
were talking, they had a video feed going, and behind one of them, I saw some
of the Elder artifacts they have recovered, sitting on a table. One of those
artifacts is an Elder AI!"

That was awesome news. "An AI like you? Another
shiny beer can?" I asked excitedly. "Did it tell you about the
Collective?"

"I haven't been able to contact it. I don't
understand why not."

"Maybe it's dormant, because the Kristang are a star
faring species? That why you couldn't talk to the Kristang or the Ruhar on
Paradise, right?"

"That doesn't explain why it won't talk to me. We
AIs can communicate on a higher level, biologicals wouldn't know about it. Also
troubling is this AI, like myself, appears to be connected to an Elder starship
crash. What the Kristang here are digging up is debris from an Elder starship
that fell out of orbit, in this case I estimate the ship crashed between 2.3
and 2.5 million years ago."

Dreading the answer I may get, I asked "Oh, boy.
You're telling me no burrowing, because we need to go get this AI, before the
Kristang ship arrives to take everything away?"

"Exactly. We can't miss this opportunity! If this
AI can direct me to the Collective, your mission is complete, and you can go
home when the 
Dutchman
 is repaired. If the Kristang take the AI away, we
might never find it again. The Kristang have no idea what it is, of course,
they're only taking it with them because they know it is somehow connected to
the Elder ship. That AI may spend eternity sitting under a pile of junk."

Or on a dusty shelf in a warehouse. "Skippy, I
see this is a great opportunity, I truly do. We're a long way from the
Kristang, we don't have any transport, and they have air power. We can't just
knock on their door and ask for the AI, we'll have to fight for it. And in a
fight, we'll have to kill all of them, every single one of them, so survivors
can't tell their ship they were attacked by humans. Huh. Also, if we do kill
them all, that ship is going to be asking a lot of questions when it arrives.
You need to let me think on this."

"You're the military genius, Joe, you'll think of
something."

"Genius?"

"Relatively speaking, of course. On a monkey
scale. Hey, you need to think fast, we don't have a lot of time."

“I’ll get right on it,” I said quietly, stepping out
from my private cubbyhole and into the main chamber of the cavern, where rows
of cots contained sleeping people. Then I stopped suddenly, struck by a
thought. A frightening thought. “You said you think this Elder ship, with the
AI, crashed between 2.3 and 2.5 million years ago?”

“Yeah, why?”

“An Elder starship, with an Elder AI, crashed only a
couple hundred thousand years after Elder technology pushed this planet out of
orbit?”

“The coincidental timing has not escaped my notice,
yes. I find this highly suspicious.”

“Maybe this AI knows what happened,” I said, and as I
spoke, a chill ran up my spine. “Oh, shit. Could this AI have been involved?”

“No! Categorically, no. Not possible. That is not
possible. No sentient being connected to Elder civilization, whether biological
or artificial in origin, would have, could have, done something this evil. It
is more likely the Elder ship and this planet fell victim to the same sinister
forces. Joe, this scares the shit out of me, so to speak.”

 

After considering Skippy’s news about the Kristang
ship arriving early, and his suggestion that we raid the scavenger camp for the
comm node and AI, I called the entire SpecOps team together in the man cavern.
When everyone had assembled, I stood on a table and announced "People,
we've made the most of our opportunity to land on this planet, train here, and
learn about the planet. Now, I am excited to announce that we have a bonus
opportunity."

There were groans from the SpecOps teams from all five
countries. No matter what the nationality, everyone understood what 'opportunity'
means in the military. Garcia raised his hand to get my attention. "Sir,
in this case, is 'Bone Us' one word, or two?"

I joined in the laughter. It was a good sign, that the
people under my command felt confident they could joke around with me. We had
bonded as a team during our exile on Newark; the hard-core elite SpecOps
people, and their sergeant-pretending-to-be-a-colonel commander. “It could be
both, Garcia. Here’s the situation; Skippy had discovered that the Kristang
scavenger team here has not only found a comm node in the wreckage of an Elder
starship, they found another AI. Another beer can like Skippy. Or, I should
say,” I hastened to add before Skippy became offended, “another Elder AI, since
I think we can all agree there is no one like Skippy. Hopefully.” That remark
got a chuckle. “It is my intention for us to raid the Kristang, and take the
two items we need.”

There was no chuckling, people gasped. Smythe spoke
first. 
"Sir,"
he asked, "the point of us hiding in caves, and ghosting their satellites,
is so the Kristang won't know we're here at all. Now we're talking about
attacking them, risking an attack on an enemy with at least equivalent weapons,
and the advantage of air power? Good as we are," he looked around at his
fellow SpecOps troops, all of whom were supremely confident they were the best,
"these Kristang are bigger, faster and tougher than any of us. I
understand our friend Skippy is eager to get this AI, but how is this worth the
risk to us?"

"It is worth the risk, because if this new AI can
tell Skippy how to contact the Collective, or the Elder comm node works, we
don't need to go wandering around the galaxy again. And, remember, the Kristang
here also have an Elder communications node, the very thing we came all the way
out here to find. Getting that AI could be a huge bonus, but getting a comm
node will mean our mission will be complete. Also, I'm hoping this new AI, or
Skippy or both of them, will agree to guide the 
Dutchman
 back to Earth,
before they, you know, beam up or whatever it is Skippy hopes to do. In that
case, we will not only return home instead of being stuck out here forever, we
will also be providing humanity with a Thuranin star carrier, that can be
examined, taken apart, and possibly reverse engineered. That is an opportunity
I think we cannot miss."

That hit home. People nodded, looking at each other. A
star carrier, permanently in Earth orbit. A technology far beyond even the
Kristang. The basis, perhaps, of humanity building a defensive capability, a
starship, even a fleet of our own someday.

"We're only going," I added, "if we have
a plan to minimize the risk. Unfortunately, I haven’t told you the best part
yet. Skippy has also learned that a ship will be arriving here to retrieve the
Kristang, in sixty to eighty days.” People gasped. “Yeah, I know, the 
Flying
Dutchman
 will not be ready in sixty days, so we won’t have the ship’s
weapons, or dropships, available for an attack. We will have to walk all the
way there, and attack with the equipment we have available. Frankly, if I
didn’t have a special forces unit available, I wouldn’t even consider attacking
the Kristang. Again, we are not going, unless we have a very solid plan to
minimize our risk. If we can’t do that, then what we do is hunker down here,
remain inside the caverns, until that Kristang ship goes away.”

“An attack, against a species with equivalent
technology, on their ground, and we can only bring with us what we’re able to
carry on our backs?” Smythe mused aloud. I couldn’t tell whether he was
skeptical or intrigued.

“The motto of the SAS is ‘Who dares wins’, Captain
Smythe?” I asked

“This,” Williams said quietly, “needs to be one hell
of a plan, sir.”

“Agreed,” I said, “and for that, I am grateful that I
have six experienced special operations leaders. And, our ace in the hole.
Don’t forget about Skippy. He may be all the way on the other side of this star
system, but right now, he is already controlling everything the Kristang see
through their satellites. It is a long walk to the Kristang base, one thing we
will not have to worry about is being detected on satellite images. I am
counting on Skippy giving us the advantage of surprise. We’re going to hit them
by surprise, hit them hard, and they won’t even know there is anyone else on
this planet until our bullets start exploding.”

 

When I dismissed people from the meeting, to begin
thinking up ideas on how to attack the Kristang, I walked over to Chang.
“Colonel, we now need a single leader of the SpecOps teams. I want you to put
together a list of-”

“Captain Smythe,” Chang interrupted me.

“Smythe?”

“Smythe. And if you ask the other five team leaders,
they will tell you the same. Smythe has everyone’s respect, everyone likes him,
and he has by far the most experience commanding special operations in combat.
He was up to be promoted to major, but he turned it down, because UNEF wanted
the team leaders all to be captains, so they would be equal in rank.”

“Huh. I didn’t know that.”

“It’s in his personnel file, sir,” Chang chided me
gently.

“Smythe, then?”

“Yes.”

“You’ve put some thought into this, ahead of time,” I
observed.

“I am the executive officer, I wouldn’t be much use if
I didn’t keep you out of trouble, sir.”

 

Before we could attack the scavenger base and take the
AI and comm node, we needed a plan. The SpecOps leaders began looking at maps
and gathering data as soon as I dismissed people from the meeting. What I did
was call Skippy. Before we made elaborate plans, I wanted to try something very
simple and easy. "Hey, Skippy, I've got a question for you."

"What?"

"You said even a nuke wouldn't damage you,
right?"

"True."

"Great-"

"True, both that I said it, and that a nuke can't
harm me. To be clear. Since I'm talking to a monkey."

"Uh-huh. Same with this other AI?"

"Possibly. I don't know for certain, it depends
on the strength of its connection to the local spacetime. If that connection is
weak, an explosion could damage it."

"Crap."

"Why did you ask?"

"Because," I said, mentally crossing one
idea off my list, "I was hoping you could hit the Kristang base with a
couple missiles, then all we would need to do is sort through the debris to
find this beer can, I mean, AI." The Thuranin missiles aboard the 
Dutchman

weren't tipped with nuclear warheads, they used some fancy high-tech molecular
compression device that had a high explosive yield without radiation.

"Ah ha. Unfortunately, there are four problems
with your idea. First, even one of our missiles might damage the AI, and we
can't risk that in any way. Second, I would be launching the missiles at very
long range, which would make it almost impossible to time their impact when all
the Kristang are at their base. Third, a missile will certainly damage the comm
node, which is almost as important as the AI. Elder communications nodes are
rather fragile devices, for reasons I had best not explain to monkeys. And
fourth, perhaps most important, we currently don't have any missiles aboard the

Flying
 
Dutchman
."

"What?" I asked, surprised. "We had
eight-"

"Dumdum, you forget I used one to carry the
microwormhole to Newark."

"Fine, seven. We had seven missiles!"

"You are entirely, one hundred percent accurate.
We 
had
 seven missiles. To repair the 
Dutchman
, I had to disassemble
them for raw materials and fuel."

"Well, that's just freakin' great,” I fumed. “When
were you going to mention that? What the hell is the point of me being a
commander if I didn't know what is going on with my own ship?”

"I'm building a starship from moon dust here, you
want every detail? We also no longer have a galley or a gym, those parts of the
ship are currently being used as a crude particle accelerator, to transmute
rare elements I need."

"A warship, that now does not have any missiles,
is kind of an important fact I need to know, Skippy. Although we're going to
need a galley eventually."

"Damn, Joe, what is so important about a freakin'
galley anyway?"

"Skippy, we have a crew of people who, whether
they think about it consciously or not, in the back of their minds they know
we're never going home. You said it, after you contact the Collective, you'll
be gone, and it's very unlikely we can fly the ship all the way back to Earth
by ourselves. Food, good food, prepared by people we know, served hot, in a
place we can gather and enjoy it together, that's important. That is vital to
morale, Skippy. We need it. It is one of the few comforts we have out here, no
matter how bad the situation is, if we can look forward to eating something
good, that gives us hope. It's a meatsack thing, you understand it? A galley is
important, we need it."

"Also," Skippy chuckled, "your galley
does provide me with endless opportunities for amusement. Ok, by the time you
get back aboard, we will have a galley, at least part of a gym, and three,
maybe four missiles. As the reactors come back online, and I process raw
materials into useable substances, I will be able to divert resources to
habitation needs and weapons. My projection is that we will have enough
materials and energy, to assemble up to eleven missiles total. Not all these
new missiles will have fully capability, we simply don't have the resources for
that type of manufacturing."

"Skippy, I do appreciate the enormous amount of
work you're doing." At my parents' house, weekend projects were carefully
planned, because a round trip to a decent hardware store or lumber yard, took
over two and a half hours. Skippy's hardware store was whatever tools he could
make by himself.

"Remember that when you get back here, and parts
of the ship are still off-limits to be decontaminated from high-energy
radiation."

"I'm sure we will simply love what you've done
with the place."

"It will truly be magical, I'm going with an arts
and crafts style theme, with a blending of elements from Disney and French
bordello. Blowing up the scavenger base with a missile won't work, what is your
backup plan?"

"That was the backup plan, Skippy. The original
plan is we raid the scavengers' base. I'm working on that."

The reason we were still working on plans for the raid
was, we didn't have a workable plan. The best plan would be for our special
forces to attack the scavengers' base at night, wearing powered armor. Speed,
power, surprise, that plan had all the advantages. We would need to sneak up to
their base, take cover, and wait until their aircraft was safely down and
secured. Thanks to Skippy, we could track their aircraft, and we had a complete
layout of their base. Thanks to the fact that the scavenger leaders didn't
trust their forced labor, and therefore had the base covered with surveillance,
Skippy tapped into their systems and could see almost everything inside their
base. There was a very basic problem with that plan; our armored suits didn't
store enough power to walk all the way to the scavenger base. The stupid
Kristang hadn't built their suits with removable powercells, so we couldn't
bring along enough energy to have a person in a suit carry an empty suit and
leapfrog to get there. In regular use, powered suits were supposed to be supported
by portable recharging units, and we didn't have even a single one of those
with us. However we got there, we wouldn't have armored suits for the assault.
As good as our special forces were, they wouldn't be so special matched up against
Kristang. We would be facing over thirty larger, stronger, faster, genetically
perfected aliens, and four, possibly six of them would have armored suits. We
needed a way to even the odds before we attacked. So far, we didn't have a good
plan to do that. The special forces worked feverishly to develop an attack
plan, and so far, none of our ideas minimized the risk sufficiently for me to
have confidence that we could succeed.

That night, I woke up in the middle of the night with
an idea. My unconscious mind is apparently smarter than I am when I'm awake, I
don't know what that says about me. My plan, and it was pretty freakin'
brilliant in my humble opinion, would accomplish two things; whittling down the
number of Kristang we were facing, and removing the Kristang's advantage of air
power. If the plan worked, that is. Knowing I wouldn't get back to sleep, I got
out of my cot and walked quietly across the cavern to get coffee, tiptoeing
carefully around people sleeping on cots and sleeping pads. Then I walked
outside, where it was chilly and damp but thankfully not raining, and I called
Skippy to discuss my idea with him. Surprisingly, he shut up long enough for me
to explain my idea.

"Hmmm," Skippy said, "
this
 is
your plan? Perhaps I had better get out the dictionary and explain the
definition of the word 'plan' to you."

"I know what a plan is, Skippy. Other than the
fact that this plan was dreamed up by a monkey, do you see any major
problems?"

"I have to admit that this plan is, possibly, not
the most incredibly awful stupid thing I’ve ever heard. Possibly. It is clearly
in the top five of all-time stupid ideas in this galaxy, of course, from there
it's a matter of judgment."

"Damn, thanks for the vote of confidence, Skippy.
Seriously, do you see any problems? A lot of the plan relies on you."

"It relies entirely on me, you moron! And here I
am on the other side of the freakin' star system, building a starship out of
moon dust. The biggest problem, and if you had more than two brain cells, you'd
know this, is that your plan has multiple potential points of failure. Unless
all parts of the plan work correctly, the entire plan collapses."

"Ok, Ok, I hear you. You got any better
ideas?"

"No, I'm good. Let's try this one."

"What!" I almost shouted. "You bust my
balls about me making a stupid plan, and you're Ok with it?"

"Yeah, sure, it's good enough. Come on, Joe,
you're monkeys. I figure, what are the odds that you'll think up a better
plan?"

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER NINETEEN

 

We put my possibly not incredibly awful stupid plan
into action two days later. Two days after that, the Kristang took the bait.

The bait was, supposedly, an Elder energy tap. Through
their satellites, Skippy showed the scavengers a tantalizing view of an energy
tap lying on the floor of a narrow canyon, our cover story was that the
artifact had been exposed by a convenient landslide. The landslide was real,
the energy tap we faked up with spare parts and discarded items, it only needed
to look convincing from the top of the canyon or higher.

If the scavengers were marginally competent, they
would have noticed the unburied energy tap within hours of the landslide. They
were completely incompetent, they didn't notice the prized energy tap lying
there on the ground, in the intermittent sunshine. Skippy got so frustrated, he
wanted to call every one of their zPhones and ask if there was any way they
could be more stupid. Thankfully, he restrained himself, and the scavengers
finally noticed after Skippy practically shoved it in their faces, by
highlighting it in their daily sensor summary. 

 

We followed their aircraft, all the way from it being
flight prepped at the scavengers' base, to watching through our satellite as
two pilots and eight other Kristang loaded aboard and it took off. The aircraft
was very much like the Ruhar 'Buzzard' transport I knew from Camp Alpha and
Paradise, only this one was a little bigger and a lot uglier. And beat up, even
from high orbit the satellite cameras showed us the patched, scratched and
dented skin of the aircraft. Skippy said the maintenance records indicated the
Kristang did the absolute minimum required to keep it in the air, one of the
engines was more than a thousand hours late for an overhaul, and the pilots
complained that engine always ran alarmingly hot. The other engine ran only
slightly too warm and produced plenty of power, except that it vibrated so much
it practically shook loose from its mounting. When the scavengers left Newark,
they wouldn't be taking the aircraft with them, I could see why they didn't
want to put extra resources into keeping it airworthy. That was easy for me to
say, since I wasn't riding in that rattling deathtrap. Maybe it would fall out
of the sky, without us having to do anything.

After it took off, Skippy followed its flight by
satellite, we were able to watch it every second. The Kristang were being
cautious with their beat up aircraft, they could have come to get the fake
Elder power tap the day before, but the weather had been bad, with low clouds
and rain. The day the aircraft left the base, the weather was patchy clouds and
cold, with only light winds. Perfect for landing a poorly-maintained aircraft
in an unfamiliar area.

"What do we call it?" Smythe asked, while we
watched the aircraft cruising along high above the clouds, it was headed
straight for us.

"The aircraft?" Adams inquired. "On Paradise,
the Ruhar had a similar vertical lift transport that we called a Buzzard. This
is the lizard version, we can call it a Luzzard for now. Or something like a
crow, maybe."

"Luzzard is good enough for now," I said, I
didn't want us to get distracted by a discussion that wasn't relevant to the
operation. "Skippy, what are they saying?"

"The pilots haven't communicated with their base
since the aircraft reached cruising altitude. I can't hear them talking inside
the aircraft. Hey, I can relay their transmissions to you, and translate
it," Skippy offered.

"That would be great," it would be useful to
hear what the pilots were telling their base, in real time. "Relay it to
the Zinger teams also."

"Affirmative."

 

We expected the Luzzard to overfly the bait, our fake
Elder power tap, it made sense they would want to thoroughly check out the
area. What we did not expect was for the Luzzard to fly over the area, at high
altitude, several times, and then fly in a wide circle three times. It was a
damned good thing it had rained a lot recently, the rain covered up the fact
that the area near the caverns had been well trampled by humans. We had
gathered grasses and shrubs from other areas and scattered them over places
where we'd walked often enough to create a path through the mud, the rain
couldn't hide those tracks by itself. Except for the Zinger teams and spotters
like myself, everyone else was waiting deep in the caverns, with all power shut
off, and no artificial heat sources. We were as prepared as we could be, given
the circumstances.

Desai, who was with me, told me the pilot likely
circling the area to look for a low-risk place to land. The Luzzard was flying
slowly, cruising around, and it was a tempting target, although it was within
Zinger range, it was not comfortably within Zinger range. If the pilot detected
a Zinger immediately, and the missile for any reason missed on its first
intercept attempt, the Luzzard could have flown out of range, and that would be
a disaster for us. We stuck to the plan, and waited for the Luzzard to descend.
The Luzzard teams remained under cover, maintaining discipline, waiting for
Smythe's signal.

Descend it did. Through Skippy, we heard the pilot
call back to his base, announcing that he was making one more pass over the
bait, at low altitude, and that he intended to land on top of a canyon ridge,
rather than risk landing at the bottom of a canyon and not being able to fly
back out in the aircraft he didn't completely trust. There was apparently some
protest about that idea from the other Kristang aboard the Luzzard, it meant
they would need to climb down the canyon, then all the way back up, lugging the
precious power tap with them.

The Luzzard approached from the south, with the sun
behind it and not interfering with the pilot's vision. It descended rapidly at
first, then went into a shallow dive. The pilot was going to fly over the
canyon where the bait was located, and land atop the canyon wall to the north.
I gave the 'Go' signal to Smythe, and he took it from there.

An Indian paratroop team got lucky, or unlucky, they
were in the perfect position as the Luzzard approached. Just as the Luzzard
cleared the south canyon wall, the paratroopers rippled off a pair of missiles,
and they were on the unfortunate Luzzard in the blink of an eye. Both Zingers
impacted the Luzzard's starboard engine nacelle, drawn in by the glaring heat
signature of the straining engine. Those Zingers were smart, they knew that
while the engines were vulnerable, and easier to target in any aircraft
surrounded by a stealth field, the most vital part of the aircraft was its
power center, where energy for the engines was generated and stored. That is
where the Zingers would normally have targeted themselves, which would have
been no good for our purpose; we needed the Kristang to see a Luzzard that fell
out of the sky because an engine exploded. For them to fly over the crash site,
and see that missiles had ripped holes in the body of the aircraft, would have
screwed up all our plans. That is why the SpecOps Zinger teams manually
targeted the starboard engines, and locked the Zingers' seekers there before
launch.

Without a stealth field, without the pilots taking any
precautions against an enemy they didn't even know was on the planet, and with
the pilots flying low and slow over the canyon, searching for the bait we'd
planted, the Luzzard was a sitting duck. The first missile destroyed the
starboard engine, the second missile impacting a split-second later obliterated
what was left of the engine, plus most of the sponson it was attached to.
Missile warhead debris and engine turbine blades splattered the fuselage,
ripping it apart like tissue paper. The Luzzard staggered in the air, spinning
rapidly to the right, its nose in the air, then it flipped over on its back and
fell straight down. The tail clipped the lip of the north canyon cliff,
shearing part of the tail off, and sending the Luzzard tumbling end over end,
bouncing off the canyon wall on its way down to a violent crash on the canyon
floor, where it rolled over several times. What was left, which was
surprisingly intact, came to rest with the back half partly submerged in a
stream.

"Alpha teams, hold position," I ordered.
Captain Xho, I knew, was itching to get into real action with his Alpha team in
powered armor suits, and I couldn't blame him one bit. The Kristang we'd seen
boarding the Luzzard had been wearing typical cold weather gear, no armor and
no weapons that we could see. It was possible one or two armor suits were
inside the Luzzard, and the Kristang had donned them in flight, that seemed
unlikely. From the intel Skippy had gathered, access to the armor was
restricted to the high-ranking Kristang, it was intended for them to keep their
forced labor under control. Considering that, I couldn't see their leaders
allowing the laborers in the Luzzard having access to any type of weapon.

I also couldn't see how anyone, even
genetically-perfected super warriors like Kristang, could have survived the
crash. The super-tough composites of the hull structure had held together, in
conditions where a human-built craft would have been flaming chunks. For all
their enhancements, the Kristang were biological, with the limitations of
biology. The extreme g-loads of the crash must have snapped necks, crushed rib
cages, torn limbs off. There was no way, I was sure, any of them could have
survived that.

I think I was sure. "Alpha team, hold
position," I ordered, "repeat, hold position."

"Acknowledged," Xho replied tersely.

"Skippy, you feeding our cover story in the
video?"

"Affirmative," Skippy said with
uncharacteristic brevity.

Our friendly beer can, controlling data feeds through
the Kristang’s' two satellites, was the key to our entire plan to knock out the
scavengers' advantage of air power, and whittle down their numbers. What we
saw, on the ground, was a Luzzard flying slowly over our fake Elder treasure,
and a pair of Zingers racing up from the ground to blow up the Luzzard's
starboard engine. We heard, through our zPhones, the pilots shouting a warning
about missiles, then the Luzzard fell out of the sky and crashed to the bottom
of the canyon.

If the Kristang at their scavenger base had seen the
same thing, it would have been an absolute disaster for the Merry Band of
Pirates. The Kristang would have been alerted to the presence of a hostile
force on Newark, they likely would have overflown us to recon the area at high
altitude with their dropship, keeping above Zinger missile range. They could have
used the dropship to follow us on our march to their base, dropping off
armor-suited warriors to harass us, and they would have prepared defenses
around their base so that it would be extremely difficult if not impossible for
us to successfully attack. Their leaders could, likely would, even have taken
the dropship, with their precious Elder artifacts up into orbit, or to another
part of the planet that we couldn't get to by walking. And, when their
retrieval ship arrived, the scavengers certainly would have told the ship about
an unknown hostile group on Newark, and that ship would have pounded our
positions to dust from orbit.

Bottom line: we needed to shoot down the Luzzard, and
make the Kristang think it was an accident, completely conceal out presence on
the planet.

Enter the magic of Skippy the Magnificent.

Through his complete control of the two Kristang
satellites, he was already assuring that the scavenger lizards did not see any
sign of human activity on Newark. The satellites edited the images and sensor
data they transmitted down to the scavengers, so they saw only what we wanted
them to see. They hadn't seen our dropships making multiple trips to bring
people and supplies down to Newark. They didn't see humans walking around, they
didn't see the solar panels we set out, they didn't detect increased infrared
radiation from the heat human activity generated. When the Kristang looked at
satellite images, if they ever bothered to look at our area of the planet, all
they saw was grasslands, low-growing shrubs, mud and rocks. Oh, and streams and
rivers here and there. No humans. No sign that Newark was inhabited by any
other sentient species.

With Skippy in complete control of the audio, video
and sensor data feeds through the satellites, what the Kristang at the
scavenger base saw and heard was their Luzzard hovering over a priceless Elder
artifact, then the pilots shouting a warning that the starboard engine was
overheating. The engine then tore itself apart, and the Luzzard crashed down,
the pilot's last words were to curse the scavengers' leaders for ignoring his
warnings about neglecting engine maintenance. The video feed through the
satellites did not show humans approach the wreck, with some of those humans in
Kristang powered armor. All the video feed showed was the busted Luzzard laying
dead on the floor of the canyon, with no movement in or around it.

And the video feed showed a priceless Elder artifact,
still there, still exposed in the patchy sunlight. Still tempting, too tempting
for the scavengers to ignore.

The scavenger leaders may not have cared about the
Kristang who died in the crash. they may have written off the Luzzard as a cost
of doing business. There was no way they were going to ignore a priceless Elder
treasure that could make their entire miserable expedition pay off for them.
What I was counting on was that the scavengers still had air transport, their
dropship. And they would be coming for our decoy in that dropship, coming
unaware their Luzzard crash had not been an accident, unaware that humans
inhabited Newark. I was counting on greed, I was counting on desperation, and
more importantly, I was counting on Kristang being Kristang. When their
starship arrived to retrieve them, if that ship detected the Elder artifact
still sitting exposed in the open, far from the scavenger base, the captain of
that ship would be strongly tempted to land in his own dropship, and take the
artifact for himself.

No way would the scavenger leaders risk that, they
were coming again for our decoy. Of that, I was certain.

 

After ten minutes, with no movement from the crashed
Luzzard, I gave Smythe the go ahead to send in the Alpha teams. Two Chinese
were closest, when they got the signal, they popped up from the covered hole
they'd been concealed in, and quickly raced across the muddy grass to the
crashed Luzzard. Those two soldiers had way more discipline that I could have
managed under the circumstances, in powered armor I would have rocketed out of
that hole thirty feet in the air, and leaped halfway to the target in a single
bound. These soldiers used the advantage of their suit's power in a controlled
fashion, sticking close to the ground, rifles always fixed securely on the back
ramp door of the Luzzard. The rear door had popped open in the crash, the force
of the impact wrenching the top of the ramp loose from its latching mechanism.
One of the soldiers held a zPhone up to the gap so we could get a view inside
the Luzzard, while the other soldier covered him.

"I don't see anything moving in there," Xho
declared.

"Agree," Smythe said, "wait for the
French Alpha team, then we go in."

The two French soldiers in powered armor, who had been
concealed a half kilometer down the canyon, were almost at the crash site,
approaching from the front of the Luzzard. Through the feed from the zPhone
network, we could all see inside the busted ship, it was chaos in there. The
Kristang had exercised poor discipline in securing items inside their ship, the
crash had caused all kinds of equipment to break loose and fly around inside
the cargo compartment. The occupants may have been in more danger from their
own gear, than from falling two hundred meters straight down. Whatever caused
the damage, they appeared to be all dead, there wasn't anything moving inside
the main compartment of the Luzzard. Two lizard bodies were visible in the
narrow view provided by the zPhone, their legs were at awkward angles, and dark
red blood was seeping onto the floor.

When the French arrived, one of them slung his rifle,
and jumped easily up on top of the Luzzard near the front, then lay down and
crept forward to peer in the cockpit windows. "They're both dead up
here," he said, holding a zPhone so we could all see the carnage. I
recognized the voice; it was Renee Giraud. And if I had been paying attention,
there was an icon at the bottom of my zPhone screen, telling me the view I was
watching was from 'Giraud, R (FR)'. The Kristang were hateful lizards, but they
made good phones. Especially after Skippy replaced the original software with
something of his own creation. "They must have been hit by shrapnel from
the warheads," Giraud reported, "the windows have holes in them. The
cockpit is shredded. It's, it's ugly," he said softly.

"Should we check inside, sir?" Smythe asked.

"Yes, if we can get the back ramp or a side door
open, I don't want us to cause any damage that doesn't look like it was caused
by the crash," I said. "We need to maintain our cover story as much
as possible."

The side door had a recessed handle, with instructions
written in Kristang, that Skippy had the visors on the suits translate for the
Alpha team. It was simple; in case of emergency, the door was supposed to be
easy for rescuers to open, just like a human aircraft. One of the Chinese got
the side door open easily, and panned his zPhone around. There was still
nothing moving in there. Because the armor suits were bulky, the four Alpha
team members waited for the Indian team, without suits, to arrive from up the
canyon. The four Indian paratroopers quickly entered the Luzzard, and within
thirty seconds, reported that the Kristang inside were all dead.

"Understood," I said, "all teams, pull
back, cover our tracks." That was the signal for the Alpha teams, weighed
down with armor, to leave the area first, and for the people not wearing armor
to sweep the embedded footprints and cover deep, muddy footprints with grass
we'd collected from other areas. When they were done, it was hard to tell
anyone had been there, and as heavy rain was expected that night, all signs would
be securely washed away by morning. I called that a success. Phase One,
complete.

 

When I'd explained my Phase Two plan to deal with the
scavengers' second aircraft, a dropship, and destroy the scavengers' remaining
air power, Smythe had not been enthusiastic.

"No good," Smythe had said, pointing at the
map, "too many possible landing sites for us to cover. We only have six
Zingers left."

"Captain," I asked, "tell me, where
would you land that dropship?"

"That's the problem. I'd touch down here,"
he indicated a spot far to the east of the site where we had placed the fake
Elder power tap, "or here, or here, or here. Touch down, drop off a three
man team in armored suits, then drop off another three man team in armor
somewhere over here," to the west of the crash site. "Then the
dropship would fly high cover, out of Zinger range, while their two teams
approach the target from opposite directions."

I nodded. "That's what I would do also. That's
not what these Kristang will do. Dr. Mesker, could you come here, please?"

"Certainly, what is it, Mister Bishop?"
Mesker didn't get the nuances of military rank structure.

I pointed to the crash site on the map. "This is
the decoy landslide site, you're familiar with the area? We put our bait there,
the fake Elder power tap? It's in that canyon behind the cathedral
complex."

"Yeah, sure, I've been there. That's a steep
canyon."

"Right," I tapped the crash site on the map.
"If you were flying in to examine the decoy site, where would you
land?"

"Uh," he tapped the map to bring up a
satellite picture overlay, then back to the map. "Here, the canyon widens
out and the floor is big enough to land on this side of the stream, plus it's
an easy walk up to the crash site. Except you'd need to cross the stream here,
it hugs the canyon wall."

I smiled. "Thank you, Dr. Mesker. Captain Smythe,
that's how a civilian thinks, and that's how the Kristang here think also.
These scavengers are civilians, they're not soldiers. You're used to planning
to counter a military opponent. Remember, these particular Kristang have no
reason to think the Luzzard crash was anything but an accident, they think
they're alone on this planet. They're going to land that dropship as close as
possible, to reduce the distance they have to walk to get our decoy, and the
distance they have to carry anything they salvage from the crash. Mesker is
right, they're going to land on the canyon floor somewhere, likely further down
than he said, because their pilot doesn't want to take any risks with their one
remaining aircraft, he'll want a clear path for a takeoff if he's fully loaded
on the return. Somewhere in this area," I pointed near where that canyon
opened into a broad, shallow canyon. "Your Zinger teams can take position
above the canyon here and here, and on the canyon floor here. That dropship
will likely overfly the crash site before selecting a spot for landing, you can
hit him as he's over the canyon, minimize the pilot's reaction time."

Captain Smythe thought for a moment, then nodded.

"What do you think," I asked, "two
Zinger teams on the canyon floor, covering the best landing site, and one team
on each side of the top of the canyon?"

"Two on the canyon floor, yes, I'll want them
able to cover each other. One on top of the canyon wall as you said, the south
side, and I also want one team up here, on this hilltop. A team up there can
cover the whole area. The hilltop doesn't give the best angle for a shot, we'll
keep that Zinger team in reserve in case things go very sideways."

 

I, of course, approved the SpecOps team leader's plan,
because he knew a lot more about clandestine operations than I did. To my
surprise, when the dropship arrived, Smythe wanted me atop the hillside,
instead watching the action from inside the cave. Of all the people on Newark, Smythe
explained, I was the only one who had fired a Zinger in combat. The SpecOps
troops had trained with a simulator aboard the 
Dutchman
, but they all
had much more extensive experience with whichever model of Man Portable Air
Defense missile their country's military used on Earth. Smythe was concerned
that, in the tension of combat, Zinger teams would be subconsciously thinking
in terms of the MANPAD missiles they were familiar with on Earth, and not the
much more capable Zingers on their shoulders. He wanted me, essentially, acting
as a spotter on the hilltop for the primary Zinger teams below on the canyon
floor. That was much better than what I expected him to want me to do, which
was to sit in the cave and watch the action on an iPad or zPhone screen. He
even went so far to suggest that, if the hilltop team, our reserves in case
things went squirrelly, needed to shoot at the dropship, I personally should
fire the missile. "You have experience shooting a Zinger, sir,"
Smythe explained. "Your report from Paradise says you got off a snap shot,
at a Chicken that was aware of you and about to shoot back. That's one less
variable to worry about, if we truly need it."

"I appreciate your confidence, Captain, I will be
on the hilltop." While Smythe was on the valley floor, where we expected
the dropship to land. "There shouldn't be anything to be concerned about,
these Zingers are extremely easy to use." I certainly hoped I was right
about that. Until Smythe mentioned it, I hadn't even considered our team's lack
of live fire experience with Zingers to be anything to worry about. That's
where Smythe's greater experience and training showed, against my own. He
considered anything that could go wrong, I'd only thought of things likely to
go wrong. That was one difference with elite soldiers; they left almost nothing
to chance. 

 

Phase Two didn't work exactly as I expected. Again,
the Kristang waited until there was clear weather over both their base and our
area, a delay of two days. We watched the dropship being loaded, taking off,
and cruising toward us. The dropship didn't bother to overfly the crash site;
they must have thought they had plenty of intel from the satellites. From
listening in to the dropship pilot's communications with the scavenger leaders
back at the base, we knew the leaders were extremely anxious not to take any
risks with their last functional aircraft, they ordered the pilot to land in an
open area, and to stay away from narrow canyons. Instead of overflying the
Luzzard crash site, the dropship came straight in from the southwest. My
services as a spotter for the Zinger teams were not needed, because the
dropship flew directly over a site we thought was a likely place for the
Kristang to land. The British SAS had a Zinger team there, they hit the
dropship as it flared to go into hover mode, the pair of Zingers streaked up in
the blink of an eye and both hit the dropship's starboard engine pod. If that
dropship had been at higher altitude, it might have had a chance to recover. It
didn't. It flipped over and hit the ground hard, almost nose-first into a big
boulder on the canyon floor. The force of the impact pancaked the front quarter
of the dropship like an accordion, no way anyone inside had survived the crash.

Smythe held his Alpha teams, the people in armored
suits, back for ten minutes to be sure no angry Kristang came out of the wreck.
And to be sure the whole thing didn't explode on us. I didn't waste any time,
as soon as the dropship hit, I left the Zinger team on the hilltop and ran to
the new crash site. It was downhill almost all the way, it still took me over
an hour to get there, that was frustrating because from the hilltop, I'd been
able to see the crashed dropship, and it took me freakin' forever to get to it.
In defense of my fitness level, Newark's gravity had me weighing fourteen
percent more than Earth normal, and the low oxygen level had me breathing hard
simply when walking around. While running relatively easily down a gentle
slope, I checked in with Skippy. "Hey, Skippy, how are your Oscar-winning
special effects going?"

"Oh, Joe, this is truly an epic Hollywood
production. It has chills, thrills, shocking surprises, and pulse-pounding plot
twists that leave the audience gasping. I laughed, I cried. It's the feel good
movie of the year! Well, unless you're the scavenger Kristang here, in which
case, it's the feel bad movie of the year. Maybe the century."

"Uh huh. They buying it, then?"

"Hook, line and sinker, I believe that is the
correct expression. Yes, they believe everything they see and hear through the
satellite feed, there is no reason for them to doubt the data."

What the scavenger leaders saw, through the
manipulated satellite feed, was their dropship getting shot down by a pair of
Zingers, Skippy hadn't edited that part at all. This time, we wanted the
scavengers seeing their aircraft shot down with Kristang portable anti-aircraft
missiles. After the dropship hit the ground, Skippy had faked the imagery. The
scavengers didn't see humans approach the scavengers' crashed dropship, instead
they saw Kristang on the ground take the camouflage netting off a concealed
dropship, then get aboard that dropship, fly over to the Elder power tap, pick
it up, and fly into orbit. The mysterious second group of Kristang, having
taken the big prize, then rendezvoused with a ship in orbit, a ship that
lowered its stealth field long enough to take the dropship aboard. The ship
then climbed out of orbit, out to safe jump range, and when this nonexistent
shop was on the other side of the planet from the scavenger base, it jumped
away. The satellite data feed included the tell-tale gamma ray burst of a
starship jumping. It was all, Skippy assured us and we hoped, very convincing.

The remaining scavengers had to be hopping mad by now.
Not only did they now not have any functional aircraft, they had lost the
priceless Elder power tap, lost it to a rival, unknown group of Kristang. A
group that got away cleanly, and was now on its way back to civilization, with
an Elder artifact that was worth more than many habitable planets. The
scavengers were now effectively stuck at their base, with whatever less
valuable Elder trinkets they'd recovered, waiting to be picked up.

If that happened to me, I would sure be hopping mad.
From Skippy tapping into their communications, he reported the scavenger
leaders were swearing vengeance, arguing and fighting amongst themselves, and
generally expending a whole lot of energy uselessly.

Phase Two, I judged, was a complete success.

 

To avoid utter humiliation at my lack of fitness, I
stopped for a minute in a stream bed near the crashed dropship, hidden from the
SpecOps teams' view, and sucked in air until my pulse stopped racing. The
commander showing up, collapsing on the ground and puking after what should
have been an easy downhill run, was something I very much wanted to avoid. When
my hands stopped shaking, I stepped out of the stream bed, and jogged slowly
toward the smashed dropship. Two dozen or more people were standing around it,
rifles slung over shoulders, the guys in armor suits had their helmets off. They
had gotten a side door open easily, the door frame wasn’t even warped in the
crash, Kristang built their ships tough, that’s for sure. There were four
Kristang bodies laying on the wet grass outside their crashed ship, three of
the bodies were broken and mangled, one appeared to merely be asleep. I looked
away, uncomfortable that these Kristang had died because of a sneak attack on
my orders.

Captain Smythe saw me coming and saluted.
"Colonel, you need to see this, we have a surprise. We're clear here, the
Kristang are all dead."

When we shot down the Luzzard, I had stayed away from
the crashed ship, because it brought back too many bad memories. Memories of
the two Whales my team had shot down on Paradise. Memories of the Chicken that
the Kristang had deliberately crashed there, because the human pilot refused to
fire a missile at a school full of children. I had those memories inside my
head, they haunted me every day, I didn’t need a reminder. That’s why I had
remained away from the crashed Luzzard. Now, I couldn’t avoid seeing the
dropship we had shot down, and Smythe expected me to go inside it. Steeling
myself inwardly, I nodded silently to Smythe and grabbed the door frame with
two hands to pull myself up and into the dropship.

Inside was less of a shambles than I expected, there
was some blood and debris had been thrown around in the violence of the crash.
When I turned to look toward the rear, I got a surprise. "What in the hell
is this?" I asked. The back two thirds of the dropship were stuffed with
some sort of, 
thing
. It looked like a big, rounded RV, a long tube
specially designed to fit inside a dropship, it barely cleared the walls and
ceiling. Straps held it securely in place.

"We think it's a vehicle of some kind, sort of a
caravan," Smythe explained, "what you Americans call a Recreational
Vehicle."

Why in the hell had the Kristang brought an RV with
them to Newark? We hadn't seen them loading it into the dropship at their base,
it must have already been in the ship. It seemed like an awful lot of weight to
carry, unless they really needed it. Or maybe they did really need it? An RV
would be useful for driving up the canyon, to recover items from the Luzzard
crash site, and to get the precious Elder power tap. For use on Newark, the RV
would need to be capable of operating over very rough, unimproved terrain. From
satellite images, we hadn't seen evidence that the Kristang had built roads
anywhere, not even around the widely-scattered Elder starship crash site.
Although having an RV would have been a great help in exploring, rather than walking,
or having to fly everywhere. "How does it move? I don't see any
wheels."

Skippy sighed into my zPhone earpiece. "So
impatient, you monkey. You can't see the treads because they're retracted, to
fit inside the dropship. You will need to get the dropship mostly upright,
remove the cargo straps from the RV, and lower the rear ramp, then I'll get it
started and drive it out for you."

The dropship was huge, almost the size of a 737
airliner. It was laying on its side. "How are we supposed to get it
upright? This thing must weigh a couple tons."

"It does. You can rig up cables, and, I really
shouldn't have to remind you dumdums, you have powered armor suits with you,
duh."

Duh was right. I hadn't thought about the armor.

 

Powered armor did help, we needed to tell people to go
slowly and be careful, as they almost used too much force and flipped the
dropship over on its other side, instead of on its bottom. We gave the dropship
a good ten minutes to settle on its bottom, I didn't want to risk anyone going
inside, until we were sure its structure wasn't going to collapse on us. When I
gave the go ahead, two soldiers went in the side door, and after a few minutes,
the rear ramp cracked open, lowered about halfway, and then got jammed in that
position. It was amazing the thing worked at all, I suppose. After screwing
with it for almost an hour, after which it was still stuck two thirds closed,
we gave up and cut through the lift mechanisms on each side. With the supports
cut through, the ramp crashed down and bounced on the ground, bent a bit but
functional. Next, the team released the straps and latches that held the RV in
place. Once freed, it shifted to slide against the port side of the dropship.
"All right, Skippy, let's see you drive that RV out of there."

There was a whining sound of electric motors. Skippy
had to wiggle it, with a lot of scraping and some tearing sounds, as it slowly
extracted itself from the dropship's distorted fuselage. The RV was
surprisingly intact; dents and scrapes here and there, nothing that prevented
it from running properly. Out of the dropship, we could see its true size, it
was as big as a city bus, or a really large RV. What it ran on was interesting;
it had wheels, but wheels made of treads like a tank. The treads could be
adjusted to be round for speed over good terrain, or oval shaped for crawling
along like a tractor. Skippy said the part of the treads that stuck out for
traction could be retracted, or extended for use in thick mud. Along each side
were inflatable pontoons so the RV could cross rivers, swamps, or even lakes,
there were water jets built into each pontoon for propulsion in water.
"Damn, Skippy, this is a hell of a vehicle," I had to admit.

"Everything you need for a fun-filled family
vacation, Colonel Joe!"

"Yeah, except for a couple sullen teenagers, and
a solid week of rain. And bugs." That's what I recall of many fun-filled
vacations in my family. "Any chance we can drive this thing all the way to
the scavengers' base?"

"Unfortunately, no. The powercells only hold
enough charge to get you about forty percent of the way there."

"Crap. Ah, hey, that's forty percent of the way
that we don't have to walk. Hey, pop the door open, will you, I want to see
inside." We were all eager to see inside our new RV, I went in last, to give
everyone a good look at our prize. It was well-worn, and smelled funky. There
were no frills on the inside; two seats up front, then a dozen more seats that
converted into bunk beds. No kitchen or other provision for cooking, no
bathroom, I suppose the Kristang expected their crew to take care of those
activities outside. In the back was a large, separate bay for cargo, sort of a
garage. It was empty.

Rubbing my chin while looking around the Spartan RV
interior, I asked "We can fit, what, twelve, fourteen people in
here?"

Smythe shook his head, I took that to mean no special
forces soldier would think that way. "To hit that base, against Kristang,
maybe against six sets of powered armor, we need numbers. Two people will be up
front driving and navigating. We can fit twenty passengers back here, rig up
extra seats, I figure we'll be driving through the nights until this thing runs
out of power. Another two people, we can rig up seats in the cargo bay, we
won't be bringing enough gear along to fill it. There's a cargo rack on the
roof, we can set up a tent or some kind of awning up there for protection
against bad weather, we can fit another four people. That gives us twenty
eight. In this terrain, we won't be driving fast, we might be able to have more
guys running alongside it, in shifts."

"No," I shook my head, "last thing we
need is somebody spraining an ankle along the way. I don't want any driving at
night either, too risky. Twenty eight, huh? That evens the odds somewhat. The
more people we bring, the more supplies we need to take with us."

"That is a problem. We can look at some people
going only part of the way, as pack mules, carrying weapons so people going
into the fight only need to carry their weapons part of the way. This is a
logistics problem, sir. We need to think about this, having an RV does solve a
whole lot of problems."

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY

 

Having an RV helped, we still needed to carefully plan
the logistics. And it wasn’t easy.
 
Smythe had been working with Simms, and
some problems remained. Serious problems. "Sir, even with the RV getting
us most of the way there, we still have the problem that we can't carry enough
food both to get us to the scavenger base, and back here."

"No,” I said, “but we can lessen the problem, if
we only need enough food to get there," I explained, "and we don't
plan to come back."

"Sir?"

"After the assault, we're not walking all the way
back here, there's no point. And if that Kristang ships shows up early, while we're
walking out in the open, we'll be totally exposed. What we're going to do is,
after the attack, we hole up here," I zoomed the map out and scrolled to
the west of the scavengers' base. "There are caverns here, in these hills.
They're cramped, it's not going to be comfortable. This site is seventy
kilometers west of the scavengers' base, we'll be closer to it on our way in, I
think we may stop there and drop off any supplies we don't need for the
assault. before we launch the attack."

Smythe tapped his iPad, examining the caverns I
mentioned. "That could work. I've holed up in worse places, in the
mountains of Afghanistan. We still won't have enough food. We won't even be
able to carry enough food to get to the scavengers' base, if we're going to be
hauling armor with us."

"That will not be a problem," I said with a
wink. "I know a place that delivers." Tapping the transmit icon on my
zPhone, I called the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
. "Hey, is this Skippy's
pizzeria?"

"Um, Ok, sure, I'll play along." His voice
changed to a stereotypical New York accent. "Yeah, this is Skippy's pizza,
what can I do you for?"

"Do you deliver?"

"Depends. Youze got a coupon or somethin'?"

"Seriously, Skippy, we need a delivery of food
and medical supplies, the first aid stuff we brought from Earth, not the fancy
nano gizmos that we don't know how to use." I explained how we planned to
get to the scavengers' base by driving the RV, then on foot. "By food I
mean sludges, dehydrated, we need maximum nutrition in minimum weight and
volume. Can you send a couple shipments down to us?"

"Oh, sure, no problem, it's not like I'm busy.
You moron! I'm building a freakin' starship out of moondust up here!"

"I know you're extremely busy. We can't carry
enough food with us to reach the scavengers' base, not with all the weapons and
gear we need for the assault. Can you put together something simple, to drop
supplies to us? It will have to be capable of a soft landing, oh, and it has to
stay out of sight of the Kristang here. We can't have them seeing a contrail
coming in, or parachutes."

"Simple? Something simple, to fly all the way
across a star system, enter the atmosphere without leaving a contrail the
Kristang could see, and land a package without damaging it? Simple, he
says."

"Uh huh, yeah. Can you do that? We don't need the
first shipment today, we'll need it probably a couple days, maybe a week before
we reach their base, I sent our timeline to you."

"I'm supposed to drop everything I'm doing up
here," Skippy complained, "to design, test and build a drone delivery
system, from nothing."

"It's kind of important, Skippy. Unless, you
know, you don't want us to recover that AI for you. Or you have a better
idea."

"Damn it. I've been trying to think up a better
idea while you've been blabbering on and on, and, no, I don't have a better
idea. Crap. All right, fine, yes, I can put something together to deliver
supplies to you. Maybe I'll get lucky, and it will land on your stupid monkey
head."

"Excellent! Knew I could count on you,
Skippy."

"All I can say is, there better be a 
huge

freakin' tip for this delivery."

"Yup," I decided to push my luck. "If
the delivery is late, do we get it for free?"

 

With the food situation temporarily solved by Skippy’s
Pizzeria, we turned our attention to other logistical issues. "Captain Smythe,”
I said, “I need you to plan the route from here to the scavenger base,
especially the route for driving the RV."

"Skippy already mapped out the fastest
route," he tapped his iPad, and the screen showed Skippy's suggested
route. "Also two alternatives," two more lines appeared on the
screen, "one slightly shorter, and one that stretches out the caravan's
power to get us the furthest, before we have to get out and walk." Being
British, he called our salvaged vehicle a 'caravan' instead of the American
term 'RV'.

"Smythe," I said, "I'm sure Skippy has
mapped out mathematically perfect routes, and we can't hope to improve on that.
However, I know that little shithead beer can, and one variable he won't
include in the billions of calculations he ran, is anything practical. Fastest,
shortest, and, uh, stretchiest are all fine, in theory. What we need is the
route that gets us to the scavenger base by the target date, with the least
risk. For example, on this route here," I tapped the shortest line,
"Skippy takes us straight through this big swamp. Sure, the RV can
supposedly crawl, or swim, through a swamp. What happens if a tread gets stuck,
or a pontoon gets punctured, or a motor burns out, and the RV is stuck in a
swamp? Then we might have to walk out of the swamp, carrying all our gear, in
freezing cold water over our heads. We can't take that risk. Skippy won't take
that sort of possibility into account. He also won't consider that we're
inexperienced drivers, so he may plan a route that takes us along a narrow
cliff. Got it?"

"Yes, sir," Smythe said, looking chastened.

Wow. For the first time, I felt like a real officer.

 

Smythe called me over the next morning, he pinged me
while I was helping Simms load supplies into the RV. I took a welcome break and
went into the cavern to where Smythe was working in a tent. A heated tent. It
felt good to step inside and unzip my jacket. "What do you have,
Captain?" I asked.

"Several possible routes for us to reach the
scavengers' base within 30 days, with minimal risk, we think." He pulled
up the first of three routes on his iPad, and explained how the route avoided,
as much as possible, swamps, driving across mushy ice fields, and steep terrain
where the RV might slide down or tip over. "After we cross this river, we
should have enough power left to get here, these grasslands are relatively flat
and dry. We'll have to walk from there, the good news is we'll only need to
detour forty kilometers to go around this swamp, and once we're past that, it's
a straight shot, and, well, Bob's your uncle, we're there."

"Bob's my uncle?" Neither of my three uncles
was named 'Bob'.

Smythe chuckled. "It's an expression, sir, it
means it's easy."

"Oh. Bob's your uncle, huh?"

"Yes, sir."

"Show me the other alternatives." He did.
Each of the three possible routes had advantages; the first didn't get as far
before the RV ran out of power, its advantage is the walking part was over easy
terrain. The second route stretched out the RV's powercells to cover the
maximum distance, minimizing the distance we would have to walk, however, the
walking route went through a region of hills and one swampy area. And the third
route took the absolutely safest path for the RV, minimizing the possibility it
would get stuck somewhere, and the walk would be through relatively flat, easy
terrain, the disadvantage was the walking section of the route was the longest
of the three alternatives. "Hmm, all the routes require we cross these
three rivers?"

"Yes, there's no way around them,
literally," Smythe explained. "We've mapped the easiest crossings we
can get to along the route, where the river current is slowest. Here for
example," he pointed to the first river crossing, which was the same on
all three alternatives, the three routes diverged after that. "If we cross
up here instead, the river is only half as wide, however, your chap Skippy
tells me the current is more than twice as fast in this area, and there are
large rocks just under the surface. Down here, where we plan to cross, the current
is more manageable, and the river bottom is sand, there are no underwater
obstacles the caravan could get stuck on."

I nodded. "Makes sense. Good work."

"The sticky point is that last river. This nasty
bugger here," he tapped the iPad screen for emphasis, "is going to be
a problem. The glacier that feeds this river is breaking up quickly, there are
large chunks of ice floating in the river, we'll need to steer around them. The
river channel is narrow almost the whole way down to the sea, it would be
hundreds of kilometers out of our way to find an easier crossing. And the river
banks are steep. The only place we can see for a crossing is here. The bank on
the far side is less than half a meter tall, Skippy tells us the caravan treads
can climb that easily, and by the time we get there, with the summer coming on,
the river level should be higher as the glacier melt accelerates. The bank is
steep on this side, we'll need to create a ramp down into it, lots of work with
picks and shovels, nothing the lads can't handle."

He made it sound easy. Maybe to SpecOps types, hacking
out a ramp large enough for an RV to drive down was a fun couple hours in the
great outdoors. Right then, I had an idea. "Captain, we can use armor to
clear a ramp. With those suits, it won't take long at all."

"Do we want to use the suits for this, sir? We'd
need to recharge the suits' powercells from the caravan, that will drain the
caravan faster."

Not such a good idea after all. I was still thinking
of what was now the good old days, when we had nearly unlimited power from the 
Dutchman's

reactors. That mindset needed to change, fast, before I made a stupid mistake
and got people killed. "You're right. Sore muscles are a problem we can
deal with, more easily than draining power from the RV. We need to be very
careful with the RV's powercells. Route Two, I think, is out, I don't want us
walking through those hills. The extra gravity, the low oxygen level, and the
heavy loads we'll be carrying will make the hike tough enough already. Route
Three you say is the least risk for the RV, but the walk is longer, how much
longer?"

"An additional sixty kilometers, roughly a day
and a half, sir." He didn't point out that information was clearly
displayed on the side of the map, I should have noticed that.

Sixty kilometers, was, to Captain Smythe of the
British Special Air Services, a trek of a mere day and a half. He was assuming
we would be walking forty kilometers, or twenty seven miles per day. Walking
twenty seven miles each day, with heavily overloaded packs, in gravity fourteen
percent greater than we were used to on Earth. "Sixty klicks in a day and
a half? You're not being a bit too ambitious, Captain?"

"No, sir, don't worry sir, the lads can handle
it. We'll check in every two hours, and you can track our progress through the
satellite."

"I'll be tracking your progress closer than that,
Captain. I'm going with you."

"Sir?" He asked, surprised.

"I know I'm not one of you SpecOps people, but I
can handle a walk. There may be crucial decisions to be made, real-time, when
we raid the scavenger's base, I need to be there, right there."

Smythe avoided my eyes. "Sir-"

"Why else do you think I've been busting my ass
training with you? I'm going along. Don't worry, I'll stay out of your way
during the assault. We're also bringing two civilians with us, doctors, medical
doctors."

"Sir?" Smythe's face revealed his anguish.
Three of his precious twenty eight billets would be taken up by noncombatants,
that reduced his striking power to only twenty five. It was bad enough that I
would be going with them, Smythe having to deal with his commanding officer
looking over his shoulder and second guessing him in real time. At least I was
a soldier, and had been in combat. Including killing a Kristang warrior with my
bare hands, or at least, with the butt of a rifle. Bringing two civilians along
would be nothing but a headache for him. "We have qualified medics."
His roster of twenty eight SpecOps troops included four people with medic
certification, in addition to the battlefield first aid training that all
special forces soldiers had taken.

"Qualified medics, yes. These two doctors are
experienced surgeons, they both did a tour with Doctors Without Borders,
they've operated in primitive field conditions. This is not open for
discussion, Captain, I am not going into combat against Kristang without means
to keep wounded people alive, until we can get them back to the Thuranin medical
facility aboard the 
Dutchman
."

"Yes, sir," he said tightly.

I could tell he thought I was endangering the primary
mission, assaulting the Kristang, in favor of a dubious secondary objective. In
combat against Kristang, both sides having equivalent technology, wounds were
very likely to be fatal, any medical assistance might well be a useless waste
of resources. It may have been my lack of experience as a senior commander that
caused me to bring two civilians along, a real colonel may have looked at the problem
more objectively, been more coldly calculating about the lives of his soldiers.
That wasn't me. Also, I figured that if needed, I could fight, and if two less
soldiers were the difference between success and failure, then this entire
mission was far too much risk, and I should call the whole thing off right now.
"The two doctors, X and Y, have been running and marching with us, you've
met them."

Smythe gave a curt nod, unconvinced. What he didn't
say was that going out for a run or a long march was one thing, knowing a warm,
dry cavern with a meal and hot chocolate was waiting for them at the end of the
exercise. Being out in the field, one day after the next, marching with a heavy
pack, in the chilly rain, with only maybe a tent roof as comfort at the end of
a long day, was a very different test of human endurance, mental endurance. A
civilian who had not actually experienced such bone-weariness for days on end,
could not say with certainty they could stand up to such strain.

He was right, I was taking a gamble that our two
civilian scientist doctors could keep up with us. The SpecOps troops, and me,
would be carrying food, clothing, part of a tent and other personal gear, in
addition to weapons and parts of disassembled armor suits. The two civilians would
only need to carry food, personal gear and medical kits. One way or another,
they would be keeping up with us, we weren't leaving anyone behind, unless
injury absolutely forced us to do that. “That leaves twenty five billets for
combat troops,” he mused.

“And five nationalities. Choose five people from each
nation,” I ordered, “we can’t have anyone thinking we’re playing favorites.”

 

"Oh. My. God." I was stunned. There,
attached to the front of the RV, just below the left windshield in front of the
driver, was a stuffed Barney, about a foot tall.

"Sir," Captain Gomez, the leader of our
Ranger team, said, "I categorically deny any and all knowledge of this
outrageous act. That is, unless you like it."

"Like it? I love it! Damn, reminds me of my old
hamvee back on Paradise. I'll ask you the same question I asked then: how the
hell did you idiots get a Barney?"

Gomez coughed. "Someone may have listened to your
debriefing, and you may have mentioned your personal hamvee then. And someone
may like to be prepared. I'm speculating, of course."

"Of course." I stood back and admired it,
then turned to the assembled team, my team, and saluted. "Thank you. This
means a lot. I used to hate that Barney shit. Now, ah, it's part of me, I
guess."

Gomez smiled. "Instead of a Winnebago, this is
our Barney-We-Go."

"BarneyWeGo," I laughed. "I like it.
Captain, let's get this thing loaded, and on the road, ASAP."

 

Oh, man, I should have put some thought into what a
road trip, in a stolen RV, across an alien landscape, with a crew of high-speed
SpecOps people, would be like. Our BarneyWeGo lurched into movement, everyone
inside gave a hearty cheer and waved to the assembled crowd outside, and we
were off. When we splashed across the stream and the canyon veered to the
right, so we went out of sight of the cavern that had been our home, Smythe
broke into song. Pumping his fist in the air to encourage participation, he
sang "The wheels on the bus go round and round-"

I joined in. It was fun, it built a sense of
camaraderie, it set a good tone for the beginning of what was going to be a
long, arduous journey.

However.

When the first song was done, the Indian team, who
likely had been trying to think of a song most people in the RV knew, or was
simple enough to learn quickly, launched into "Ninety nine bottles of beer
on the wall-" And that was fun, for a while. Let me tell you, SpecOps
people are hyper competitive, none of them wanted to stop. The singing went on
and on, to where we got down to seventy three bottles of beer on the wall, and
I for one was heartily sick of it, and of course none of the SpecOps people wanted
to be the first to stop, they were way too damned competitive. The
responsibility fell to me, as the commander, to mercifully kill the singing.
"Stop! Quiet! What was that?" I stood up and walked behind the
driver, using as an excuse a clanging sound against the bottom of the RV.

"Oh, sir, we're kicking up rocks here," the
driver explained, pointing out the windshield to the layer of rocks in the
streambed we were following down the canyon. There was another soft 'clang'
noise as the forward treads caught another stone, and tossed it against the
bottom of the RV. The plating of the BarneyWeGo was thicker on bottom to
protect against impacts, it also had kind of a skid plate, for when the RV
needed to slide over an obstacle.

I called a brief halt, and ducked outside to check the
RV's skin, partly out of genuine concern. There were some new scuff marks, no
additional dents, nothing to worry about. When I got back inside, I was
relieved to see people had broken out decks of cards, and two games were
getting started. Card games, even having nothing to gamble with except small
pieces of candy people had smuggled in their personal gear, would keep people
occupied. Occupied was good. The driver, a Chinese soldier named Zhang, put on
some pop music, the rule being whoever was driving controlled the music
selection. I couldn't understand the words, and remarked that pop music all
over Earth sounded pretty much the same, so it didn't matter that I couldn't
understand the lyrics. Captain Li shrugged. "That song is Korean, sir,
K-pop, we call it. We don't understand the words either."

Damn, what an interesting international crew we had,
aboard our BarneyWeGo, bouncing and lurching our way across the surface of an
alien world, almost two thousand lightyears from home. It made me feel proud.

 

Our first stream crossing was uneventful. Before the
RV drove down the bank into the water, I ordered a halt, and for everyone to
get out, so Skippy could drive the RV across remotely. The middle of the stream
was just deep enough that the RV needed to deploy its floatation pontoons, they
worked perfectly. The RV got to the other side, Skippy turned it around and
drove it back to us. Then half of us got back aboard, and our Chinese driver
carefully took us across, he reported the transition between the RV driving on
its treads to floating and using water jets was seamless, the RV's computer
knew what to do, based on the driver's inputs to the controls. Captain Giraud
drove the RV back to get the rest of us, then we proceeded with an Indian
soldier driving. That way, we now had three people with some experience. Damned
good thing, too, because we had to cross our first major river in two days.
After a couple hours, we stopped at a convenient place to switch drivers.
Captain Smythe saw me looking longingly at the driver's seat. "Would you
like to have a go at it, sir?" He asked.

"Captain, I would love to drive this thing. I am
not going to be some shithead officer who takes fun away from the troops. We'll
be driving this RV for days, I can wait my turn."

 

My policy that whoever was driving picked the music,
or no music at all, led to an, let's say, interesting variety of musical
styles. The first Chinese driver, a guy named Zhang, had played pop music I
didn't recognize, it was at least recognizably pop. The second time a Chinese
came up in the driver rotation, it was a guy named Chen. The music he played
sounded like a cross between wind chimes, the kind of new agey thing I expected
people listened to at a yoga spa, and someone unsuccessfully trying to tune a
guitar. After a while, I looked at Captain Li, who shrugged, rolled his eyes,
and we put headphones on to listen to our own music selections. After Chen it
was the turn of an Indian paratrooper named Sharma, who liked to sing, loudly
and badly, along with his music, and his fellow paratroopers often joined in,
off key but with enthusiasm.

When one of our SEALs named Garcia started driving, it
was across a relatively flat field, when the treads automatically adjusted
themselves to be almost round, and we were making good time. The treads soaked
up a surprising amount of bumps, so the jostling and bouncing in the cabin was
a lot less than I'd expected. Garcia must have been feeling good, rolling
happily along across an alien landscape in our stolen RV, because he changed
his music selection in the middle of a song, to go old, old school with Coolio.
When the first notes of the song came over the speakers, the Chinese soldiers
looked at each other and muttered something, and the Indian soldiers looked at
each other and muttered something, and for a split second I feared we were
going to have a problem, then the Indians, Chinese and French all stood up,
mockingly flashed gang signs, and sang along. Badly, with enthusiasm. "As
I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I look at my life and realize
there's nothing left-"

"Holy shit," I said under my breath.
"Does everybody know that song?"

Then Captain Smythe got up to join in, and soon
everyone in the RV was going "They been spending most their lives livin'
in the gangster's paradise-"

High fives went all around when the song ended. Damn,
I thought, we really are one bad-ass international team. Hopefully, we could
bring that cooperative team spirit back to Earth one day.

 

That night after we stopped driving, the sky was
cloudy but not raining, the wind had slowed to a gentle breeze, and for an
early summer evening on Newark, it wasn't too cold. Smythe and I surprised the
group by unrolling a screen and attaching it to the side of the RV, so we could
have movie night. Captain Chander of the Indian team provided a Bollywood hit
movie, the Indians had all seen it, the film was new to the rest of us. With
our zPhone earpieces translating for us, we were all able to understand the
words without annoying subtitles. It was a pretty good movie, involving car
chases, a forbidden love affair, gangsters and something about diamond
smuggling, toward the end I lost track of the complicated plot because I was so
tired. The thing that made me sit up and take notice was that, in the middle of
a big fight scene, the characters all stopped fighting to break into an
elaborate, choreographed song and dance routine. Minutes later, the music
ended, and they all went back to beating the crap out of each other. Gomez of
the Ranger team expressed himself on behalf of most of us; when the fighting on
the screen resumed, he shook his head as if he couldn't believe his eyes and
said aloud "What in 
the
 
hell
 just happened?"

The Indians all grinned and laughed, and Smythe responded,
with dry British humor, "Well, I suppose that's not any more strange than
a Hollywood film where a car turns into a flying robot, isn't it?"

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY ONE

 

The first major river crossing was no big deal. We
stopped at the river bank to check out the best spot to get the RV down into
the river, more importantly the best spot for it to climb out on the far shore.
The amount of dirt we had to move, to create a ramp down into the water, was a
lot less than I'd feared, we had the job done in less than two hours. Next, I
had one person drive the RV across and then back by herself, the driver for
that shift was a Chinese named Liu, one of only three female SpecOps soldiers
with us. She drove the RV into the water, it slipped in the mud and made a big splash,
wobbled a bit, then steadied and motored easily across. Liu reported the spot
we'd chosen to climb out on the far bank was crumbly, I told her to use her
judgment, and she selected a place upstream. The RV's treads powered it out of
the water, and we could see Liu pumping her fist triumphantly in the front
window. She came back across, loaded us aboard, and we went boating again.

 

During the day, while we sat in or on top of the RV,
there wasn't much to do, except for the driver and the person acting as
navigator. Smythe had everyone bring up maps of the scavenger base on their
tablets, and together, the SpecOps teams created and rehearsed assault plans
for a wide variety of contingencies. Most of our plans to hit the base depended
on speed, surprise, and the cover and confusion of darkness. If we had to, we
could attack during the day, that was not optimal. Thanks to the Kristang
troopship in Earth orbit, we had excellent night vision equipment. Our night
vision gear looked like regular goggles, the kind you would use for skiing or
riding a dirt bike or around power tools. Ordinarily, the goggles were clear
and they worked like any plastic safety goggles on Earth, except these could
stop a rifle bullet, and they repelled water, dust and dirt using magnets or
force fields or some super high tech thing like that. Press a button on the
left side of the goggles, and the inside of the lenses displayed whatever image
you commanded from your zPhone. You could select a night vision mode that
displayed an enhanced view from the tiny cameras at each corner of the goggles,
or you could pull up a map, data, or the view from someone else's goggles. That
feature was very helpful to leaders, they could see what their troops were
seeing, in real-time. You could even split the view, one side displaying a
night vision image of what is in front of you, overlaid with a map, the other
side displaying what some other soldier was seeing. It took some getting used
to, and of course we had to stop treating it as a toy and learn how best to use
different features depending on the situation. Until we gained more experience
and proficiency, the simple night vision feature as best for most soldiers.
Unlike the US Army night vision gear I was used to, which restricted your
peripheral vision and displayed a fuzzy, false-color image, the Kristang
goggles showed you a view similar to twilight; the colors were muted, otherwise
it simply appeared less bright that usual.

Doing imaginary dry runs on a tablet screen had only
limited usefulness. Each night, after we stopped and set up camp, Smythe
created a small scale model of the scavenger camp, using back packs for
buildings and rope for fencing. Smythe spent an hour every evening, rain or
shine but mostly rain, explaining assault plans under various scenarios. Using
a small 3D model, with everyone standing around it, did help. Still, Smythe
regretted that we didn't have the time to build a full size model of the
scavenger camp, so the team could practice for real, instead of imagining. Creating
a fake scavenger camp hadn't been possible before we shot down their two
aircraft, we couldn't risk the Kristang seeing a fake camp from the air. And
before we set out in the RV, we hadn't known how fast we could travel. Now,
Smythe thought we should have taken a couple days, even a week, to practice
assaults before we set out in the RV.

Two days after crossing the first river, we were
driving through a series of hills that stretched across our path. When planning
the trip, these hills were a major concern, they turned out to be not a problem
at all. The RV's treads automatically adjusted to the terrain and we made good
time, all the driver needed to do was watch out for huge boulders that were
strewn all over the area. The science team, back at base and watching our
progress through satellite images, thought that these boulders had been left
there by a glacier. A glacier that had covered the entire area, perhaps a
kilometer thick, after Newark had been pushed out of its original orbit. As
Newark's orbit changed and the planet warmed up again, the retreating glacier
had dumped rocks it picked up on its journey to the south. The hills we drove
over, a series of parallel ridges, were a 'terminal moraine' according to our
science team. Basically, each ridge was where a glacier had stopped and dumped
all dirt, rocks and other junk it had accumulated while it was expanding.

We came over a hill, the next hill was a kilometer
ahead of us, with a nice flat area in between. It was late afternoon, I was
looking at the map, trying to find a good place to stop for the night. While
the sun had been popping in and out of clouds all day, we would be getting a
steady rain over night, into the next afternoon. I looked up from the map to
gaze out the windshield, and the flat, open valley in front of us caught my
eye. "Hmm," I grunted. On my iPad, I zoomed in the satellite image.
Other than some rocks sticking out the ground, the area between hills was
pretty much flat and free of major obstacles. "Captain Smythe," I
said, "this area in front of us, what do you think?"

He clearly didn't know what I was referring to.
"This area reminds me a bit of the Yorkshire Dales, sir, if-"

"No, I mean, here, look at this." I showed
him the satellite image of the valley, over which I had pulled up an outline of
the scavenger base.

"Interesting," Smythe said, glancing from my
iPad screen to the actual terrain in front of us. "We are ahead of
schedule," he pointedly added.

"That's what I'm thinking," I agreed.
"We can call a halt here, set up a full size replica of the scavenger base
while we have light, and practice the assault tonight. It's going to rain
tonight," I added.

"Excellent," Smythe grinned approvingly,
"because it will most likely be raining during the actual assault."

 

Within an hour after the RV stopped, we not only had
camp set up, we also had the fake scavenger base buildings and fences outlined
with stakes and rope. Skippy inspected the layout through satellite images, and
gave Smythe grudging approval that the outlines were pretty darned accurate,
within a couple inches in most cases. The rain that night ranged from steady,
to short downpours to a chilly, foggy mist, and it made an intense and
exhausting night completely miserable for everyone. Other than me and the two
civilian doctors, everyone thoroughly enjoyed themselves, I'd never seen
dead-tired people looking so happy when we halted the exercises just after the
sun rose. Smythe had his team run one scenario after another, again and again
and again and again, until each assault plan was executed as flawlessly as
possible. The people having the most fun were the 'Alpha' teams in Kristang
armored suits, they were able to practice jumping from the ground to the top of
the RV and back down, and racing at full speed, leaping over rocks and
generally showing off.

I observed the exercises, I did not participate. I am
not a special forces soldier, I hadn't gone through combat training with them,
I didn't know their tactics, I didn't know them as well as they knew each
other. If I had insisted on participating in the assault, I would only get in
the way, and maybe get someone killed. Observing was enough. The Alpha teams
were, of course, awe-inspiring, although after watching them sprint 70 miles an
hour and leap thirty feet high, it became somewhat less impressive, because I
expected awesomeness from such advanced alien technology. What truly impressed
me were the SpecOps soldiers without fancy armored suits. Fast, silent,
well-coordinated, they converged on their assigned targets from multiple
directions. Because Skippy knew the interior layouts of buildings at the
scavenger base, we were able to use rope to outline hallways, doors and walls,
so the teams could practice breaching doors and clearing a building room by
room. Making things simple for the team was the fact that we were not trying to
capture prisoners, and we didn't need to be concerned about damaging anything,
except for the two items we needed to secure; the AI and the comm node. In
other buildings, we could sweep rooms with rifle fire, or use grenades.
Wherever the AI and comm node were stored, we needed to be careful, we could
not risk hitting either of the Elder artifacts with bullets or explosives.
Skippy reported that there were a few Elder artifacts stored in the building
where the scavenger leaders lived, items the scavengers thought were the most
valuable. To us, those items were useless junk, and Skippy didn't care if we
blew them up. The AI and the comm node were inside a secure building the
scavengers used as an armory; it was behind an electric fence, with heavy
double doors that only the leaders had access to. If the AI and comm node were
inside the armory when we launched the assault, our task was easy; secure the
armory building, eliminate the Kristang, then we could retrieve the precious
items later.

If, for some reason, the two items had been removed
from the armory, or even were separated, then the assault team's task was
exponentially more difficult. And whatever we did, we couldn't let the
scavengers learn that the purpose of our attack was to steal two Elder
artifacts, or they could threaten to destroy them, and stall out attack.

Smythe had plans for multiple assault scenarios, that
was all great and the team practiced multiple options until they executed each
plan like clockwork. What Smythe could not plan for was the unknowns.
Technically, we did have plans for the unknowns we could anticipate; the
weather, where in the base the scavengers would be sleeping, how many leaders
and laborers were awake, what weapons the leaders had with them. Skippy
reported that the scavengers did not have any set schedule for base security.
Some nights, two or more leaders remained on watch throughout the night. Most
nights, the leaders snoozed peacefully all night, relying on their electronic
monitoring systems to alert them to any trouble.

In one way, the scavenger base was an easy target for
a surprise attack. The scavengers had plenty of weapons, including four
functioning powered armor suits. In addition to standard Kristang rifles, the
armory held heavy weapons; grenades, anti-armor rockets, and Zingers. What
mattered to our planning was that, except for the suits and rifles the leaders
kept with them in their secure compound, all the weapons were locked up inside
the armory building. On a planet with no native threats, the leaders were
mostly concerned about being threatened by their own workforce. That made it
easy for us; we needed to be concerned primarily with taking out the leaders,
most of Smythe's plans assumed the leaders would be inside their compound at
night. During nights, the laborers were locked inside their own compound,
unable to get out. The exterior doors of buildings in the laborers' compound
were locked at night, and electric fences crisscrossed the base, protecting the
leaders from the laborers, and keeping the laborers away from the armory. Once
we took out the leaders, we could deal with the laborers later.

That was the plan. What we couldn't plan for was the
unknowns we couldn't anticipate. For that, we needed flexibility, and
individual initiative; fortunately, SpecOps soldiers excelled at those
qualities. I needed to trust that, whatever happened, the team could handle it.

 

Our two doctors had peacefully slept through the
night, in the RV with earplugs and white noise playing on the radio. When it
got to be an hour before sunrise, I roused them, and the three of us got a hot
breakfast ready for the troops. The breakfast was much appreciated. After we
struck camp and removed all traces of the practice area, we resumed traveling
toward the scavenger camp, with the two doctors taking turns driving, and me
navigating. After six mostly-solid hours of sleep, the team was fully
refreshed, and it was my turn to sleep. I put in earplugs, strapped myself into
a seat with a baseball cap down across my face, and the lurching and bouncing
of the RV quickly had me soundly asleep.

Hopefully, I didn't snore.

 

"Stop here," I ordered a couple days later.
Smythe got out of the RV with me, we walked forward to inspect the slope ahead
of the RV. It was not an ideal situation. The whole area was crisscrossed by
canyons, most with sides far too steep to attempt driving the RV up or down
them. There was only one possible route we saw from the satellite data, it
looked a lot more drivable from the satellite when we were planning the trip,
than now when we were there on the ground. The plan was for us to drive
northwest along a relatively wide, shallow canyon until we came to a side
canyon, that one was almost like a road that led gently up to the plateau where
we wanted to be. The main canyon had a stream running through it, the stream
occupied the center bottom of the canyon's shallow V shape, so did a lot of
rocks that had tumbled down over the years. It had looked, from the satellite,
that we could drive partway up on the right side of the canyon wall, avoiding
the big rocks at the bottom. The canyon was broad and shallow enough that the
sides walls sloped gently until they reached the lip of the plateau above us.

"This could be a problem," I mused, looking
at the terrain the RV needed to drive over. Avoiding rocks did not appear to be
a problem, they were as widely spaced on the canyon wall as they'd appeared on
the satellite images. The problem was that, in places, the side slope of the
canyon wall was steeper than we expected. A few sites were almost forty five
degrees. Smythe and I walked forward with the SpecOps team leaders, and our
most experienced drivers, we walked over a mile and a half from the RV.

"If we can keep to this line," Williams drew
an imaginary line on a shallow diagonal across the slope, "we should be
all right. We'll get up there," he pointed to a spot up the canyon wall
higher than we wanted to go, "hang an easy left, and drive back down."

"Except for those two ridges," Smythe
pointed back to where the side slope of the canyon wall was steep. "If we
had time and equipment, we could hack out a road. The first one is only a
hundred meters, maybe, but the second one must be half a kilometer. We don't
have the time, equipment or manpower." He pulled out his zPhone, and
looked at the satellite image of the area, comparing it to what we were seeing
on the ground. "This may not be as bad as it appears from here. Do you
ski, Colonel?"

"Snowboard, some. My family is more into
snowmobiles, our part of Maine is fairly flat, and it's a long drive to go
snowboarding."

Smythe nodded. "You know how, when you're at the
bottom of a mountain, looking up at the slope, it doesn't appear to be very
steep, and you're confident you can get down it? Then, you get off the lift at
the top, and sometimes, suddenly, that same slope looks like it goes straight
down? Maybe this is like a ski mountain. Maybe it looks more difficult from up
here."

"Skippy," I called, "what do you think?
Can you drive the RV past those obstacles, or will it flip over on its
side?"

"What am I, an off road racer?" Skippy
asked. "Yes, it is possible for the RV to drive on a slide slope even
steeper than those two areas, the treads have a limited self-leveling function,
where the tread on the lower side will extend down to negate the slope. You can
also shift cargo inside the RV so the weight is on the uphill side. However, I
should not be driving. Even with the microwormhole facilitating communications,
there is a time lag between me and the surface, I might not be able to react
quickly enough. A human driver, in the vehicle, could feel the operation of the
treads in real time, and adjust accordingly. The problem is that the surface is
soft and saturated with water, it could be somewhat unstable, I can't predict
that. Someone is going to have to drive it for you, Joe. I suppose we're too
far from Earth to call Uber?"

And it sure wasn't going to be me driving, I had not
yet taken a shift at the RV's controls. We walked back to the RV, making a very
careful examination of the two problem areas along the way. Then we got
everyone out of the RV, shifted cargo around inside and tied that down
securely, and then Lieutenant Zhang took the controls and proceeded slowly forward.
Everyone with driving experience had offered to take the RV over the obstacles,
I didn't want to pick a favorite or do something silly like draw straws, so
since Zhang had driven us into the canyon, he could drive us out.

There were some hairy moments when we all thought the
RV was going to tip over, and the treads slipped wildly in the mud. Zhang
remained calm, the treads stopped slipping and bit into the soft soil, and the
RV slowly inched back onto relatively flatter ground. When the treads on both sides
returned almost to normal configuration, we all cheered. Zhang endured many
backslaps as we climbed back into the RV. He gave me a thumbs up and said
"Thank you for your faith in me, Colonel."

"Would you like a break?" I asked, noticing
that his hands shook slightly. He'd known that the success of the entire
mission, and the survival of humans on Newark, had depended on him for a
moment.

"Yes, Colonel," he admitted, "I've had
enough driving for today, I think."

"Good job," I said as I gave him a gentle pat
on the back, and extracted from my pocket a piece of chocolate I'd been saving.
"You deserve this."

Zhang looked at that piece of chocolate, a precious
enough item on Newark but especially so on our current expedition, like I'd
handed him a bar of gold. He accepted it in both hands, bowed slightly to me,
and wrapped it carefully in a cloth before placing it in a pocket. The other
Chinese soldiers said something to him in Mandarin, and he broke into a grin.
Apparently, I had just made his day.

I was tempted to climb onto the roof and ride up
there, the RV had a roof rack and we'd rigged up a couple places to sit, and an
awning to keep rain off. As it was partly sunny that day, the awning had been
taken down and stowed. The roof could be chilly, it was also a popular enough
place to ride that I'd had to limit people to taking shifts up there, they
changed when we changed drivers. Inside the RV was warm and dry, out of the
wind, it was also dreary as the RV had few windows. Realizing that if I went on
the roof, someone would have to come down, I stayed in the RV, adjusting my
seat so I could see out the front windows. One of our SEALs named Taylor took
the wheel, as he had the next shift, and Lieutenant Williams stood behind the
driver's seat. "Right up there, by that big round rock, that's the
top," Williams pointed out. "Make a straight line for it, and when
we're over the crest, let it fall off to the left and we'll get back down to
our original course."

"Got it," Taylor replied. Williams went back
to his seat, strapped in, and we headed off.

All went well at first, Taylor carefully and
confidently drove us up to the crest, let the RV naturally turn slightly to the
left, and drove a fairly straight line toward a gap between two large rocks.
Those two rocks, I remembered from the satellite images, we had planned our
route to avoid them, now that I saw them from the surface, they were not a big
deal. The gap between them was four or five times wider than the RV, with some
smaller stones half buried in the ground, the RV's treads morphed shape to roll
over the stones as if they weren't there. After shooting the gap, it was an
easy drive back down to the original course we'd planned, parallel to the
stream at the bottom of the canyon. Even at the careful rate that Taylor was
driving, it would only take us a few minutes to get back down to the intended
track, which at that part of the canyon was almost like a shelf notched into
the shallow canyon wall. To my eyes, I wondered if the shelf had ever been a
road, created millions of years ago by Newark's original inhabitants. That idea
was stupid, I knew, no road could have lasted that long, especially not in a
canyon carved by the advance and retreat of glaciers, glaciers massing millions
of tons. The shelf, and the one on the opposite canyon wall, had been created
by the stream in full flood, raging over its banks and carrying stones smashing
and scouring the soil of the canyon walls, each year digging the canyon deeper
and wider, carrying its soil eventually, grain by grain, down to the sea.

It would take us only a few minutes to get down to the
shelf notched into the canyon wall, even though Taylor was being extra careful
driving in the soft, muddy soil.

And then, suddenly, it didn't take any time at all.
"Whoa!" Taylor shouted a warning from the driver's seat, at the same
time we all felt the RV rock side to side, then drop sickeningly.

"What's wrong?" I shouted back, pushing
myself up in the seat to see through the window in front of Taylor.

Taylor replied much more calmly than I could have
managed. "I didn't do anything, the treads won't- AH!" As he gave the
alarm, there was a high-pitched whine from the treads on the right side, the RV
lurched to the left and dropped again. And then it rolled. The RV rolled to its
left, rocked back to the right, then to the left again, and kept going. Out the
driver's window, I saw someone jump off the roof; the RV was rolling over and
the people on the roof weren't waiting for an engraved invitation to get the
hell off the thing.

It was chaos, sheer chaos. The RV rolled over and
over, onto its left side, then the roof, then the right side, paused ever so
briefly to rock on the protesting treads, and rolled again. I lost track of how
many times it rolled, after counting two complete flips my head was bouncing
around too much to be aware of minor details. For some reason, the RV wasn't
rolling fast, it was almost a controlled motion, and it didn't seem to be
gaining speed. It was chaos inside the RV.

Let me tell you something about the SpecOps people.
They didn't panic. They all kept their cool, kept situational awareness the
whole time, looked for opportunities to do something useful to affect the
outcome. Every one of them, I'm sure, knew how many times we rolled. It was
chaos, we had no control, we were tumbling down a slope toward a rock-filled,
icy, raging stream at the bottom of the canyon, and there was no shouting, no
screaming, no panic. I felt almost ashamed of myself, until I managed to follow
their example.

It was a damned good thing I had insisted that
everyone be strapped into seats any time the RV was moving, or we would have
suffered serious injuries from people being tossed around inside the RV. After
I don't know how many puzzlingly ponderous, slow rolls, the RV came to rest on
its treads, rocked side to side two or three times, then stopped. "Is
everyone all right?" I asked stupidly. "Anyone injured?" I asked
more intelligently.

"I'm good."

"Ok here, sir."

Everyone sounded off, and other than bruises and
bumps, no one was hurt. "Get the door open, let's get out of here before
this thing rolls again," I ordered, and made sure I was the last person
out the door. Because the door was on the left, downhill side, I ran the hell
away from the RV, in case it decided to roll on top of me.

"Holy shit," I exclaimed.

The RV had ended properly on its treads, right on the
shelf where we wanted to be! Looking up the slope, I could see all four of the
people who had been on the roof were on their feet, waving to us, apparently
uninjured. And I could see the source of the problem; the ground had given way
beneath the RV up the slope, soil had slipped in a mini landslide of mud and
soft dirt. Once the RV rolled the first time, it got momentum started, and kept
going down the gentle slope of the canyon wall, until it fell onto the
shelf-like notch.

"Ha!" Williams laughed relieved now that
he'd seen no one was seriously injured. "Taylor! You didn't need to get us
here so fast!"

We all laughed. Laughed, and we couldn't stop. I
laughed until I had tears in my eyes, laughed in relief that I wasn't dead,
that the RV wasn't upside down in the stream, the RV, somehow, was on its
treads, and not even the windows were broken. The door still even worked, it
was sticky, sure, I had expected the door to be solidly, impossibly jammed into
its frame after such a shock.

"Skippy," I inquired, "how badly is the
RV damaged?"

"It's fine, Joe. You took quite a tumble there.
Are you Ok?"

"It's 
fine
?" I asked, astonished.

"Yup, the Kristang build these things tough. They're
designed to be dropped by parachute. The reason it rolled over so slowly is the
gyroscopes counteracted the roll a bit, they're designed to do that. You can
get back in and drive it away, no problem. You better fix the roof rack first,
it automatically retracted when it sensed the roll, but I can see it's bent in
some places. Nobody is hurt?"

"Minor bumps and bruises. Damn, Skippy," I
walked around the RV and looked it in amazement, "how it this thing not
laying in pieces all over the place? How did the treads not get busted
off?"

"The treads and pontoons would have retracted
automatically as needed, the onboard computer knew when to extend the treads to
stop the roll when it could. Like I said, these things are built tough, Joe.
Good thing, too, because the warranty on that RV expired a long time ago. Tell
you what, I can get you a sweet deal on rustproof undercoating, I know a guy
who knows a guy."

"Thanks, Skippy, but we don't plan on owning this
thing long enough for that to matter."

"I'll throw in a set of air fresheners. You got
an RV stuffed full of monkeys, air fresheners could come in mighty handy,
Joe."

I laughed. "Skippy, if things go according to
plan, in a few days, we're going to dump this RV in a lake, or bury it, so no
one will ever find it. Rustproofing and air fresheners would be
counterproductive at that point."

"Damn. Joe, remind me never to let you borrow my
car. If I ever have one."

When the people who had been on the roof walked down
to us, after picking up things like the awning, jackets and several backpacks
that had been flung off the roof on the RV's way down, I got everyone to pose
in front of the mud-smeared and only slightly dented RV. Setting my zPhone on a
rock, I asked Skippy to take photos of our group, which he did without any
snarky comments. Maybe he was genuinely glad that we were alive, or maybe he
was too busy repairing the 
Dutchman
 to play any pranks on us then. I
appreciated it.

When we were done with the photos to commemorate our
miraculous survival, I told Taylor to get back in, and check if Skippy was
correct about the RV being drivable. Taylor gave me a quizzical look. "You
sure you want me driving again, sir?"

"Taylor," I said, "it wasn't your
fault. Besides, what are the odds that will happen to you twice?"

Skippy chimed in. "Was that a question for me,
Joe? Truly, I don't have enough data to calculate the odds. I'd need
ground-penetrating radar to examine the soil-"

"That was a rhetorical question, Skippy, no
number crunching needed."

"Good. Because without further data, my estimate
of the odds would only be accurate within sixty five per-"

"Thank you, Skippy, we've got it from here.
Taylor, do your thing."

The RV drove just fine, Taylor went forward a hundred
meters, then backed up to us. If the soil of the shelf was saturated with water
and unstable, running the RV back and forth over it should have caused it to
shift. Smythe and I walked the tracks the RV had made, there were no cracks in
the soil, no signs of the ground shifting at all. Satisfied that we were as
safe as we could be, we fixed the roof rack as best we could, loaded up the RV,
and drove off again. This may not be a fun-filled family vacation, but it sure
was turning out to be memorable. Smythe was looking at the photos I had
forwarded to everyone's zPhone. "Bishop," he slipped for a moment,
"Colonel," he was smart enough not to call attention to his mistake,
"in Afghanistan, I was in a helicopter that went down, we were high up in
the mountains, and the trailing rotor blade stalled or some bloody thing like
that. We only fell fifty meters, onto snow, it could have been worse, the helo
slid down the mountain and lodged against a rock before it would have fallen
over a cliff. We had some broken bones, nothing serious," he said in a
nonchalant SAS manner. "Before the rescue helo arrived, we posed for a
photo in front of the busted bird." He pressed a few buttons on his zPhone
and pulled up that photo. "That's me on the left."

The photo didn't look any different than he did now,
it must have recent. When was the SAS in Afghanistan? "When was this, oh,
never mind. You shouldn't tell, me, and I don't care." If I'd cared, the
details were in his service record.

"Ha!" Smythe laughed. " As if that
matters now, sir. We know the only bloody secret that matters now, about Skippy
playing games with wormholes. What I was going to say, sir, is until today,
that pic of the downed helo was my favorite. But now, a photo of us having
survived rolling down a canyon, in a stolen alien RV, on a planet thousands of
lightyears from Earth? That beats all, in my opinion."

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY TWO

 

The second and third river crossings were close
together, we'd swim the RV across them in the same day. We reached the second
river in late afternoon, and unlike the first river, where we'd had to hack a
ramp down to the water, we expected this one to be an easy drive down into the
river for the RV. That's how it appeared from the satellite image. That was not
the reality we saw on the ground. The river banks on both sides had places where
the land led straight down into the water on a fairly gentle grade, easy for
the RV's treads. What was not easy was that in those places, the ground at the
water's edge was slippery, thick mud. Skippy advised that even our RV's
miraculous treads might get stuck. We got out and scouted up and down the river
to find a better place to cross, there wasn't one. Our best option seemed to be
to hack another road down to the water, in a place that wasn't too muddy. On
the far bank, we'd need to get the RV to climb the bank as high as it could,
then tie a line around a rock and use the RV's winch to pull itself up. It was
growing dark by the time we got the road hacked out manually with picks and
shovels, I decided against attempting a crossing in the growing darkness, and
ordered a camp set up for the night. It was a decent evening, dry, warm for
Newark, and the following day's forecast was for high winds and torrential
rains. People needed a break. To stretch our legs that had grown stiff from
sitting in the RV all day, most of us hiked up a hill above the river and
watched the sun set. It was only the second time during our entire stay on
Newark that I'd seen the local star set over the horizon, most days there were
clouds in the way, or it was solid clouds and rain. Seeing a sunset was a
treat, I took it as a good omen.

Crossing the second river was uneventful, we all
complained what a pain in the ass it was to get the big RV up over the far
river bank. Honestly, every single one of us loved seeing the RV winch itself
up, carving a big gouge in the river bank. The treads got completely,
hopelessly clogged with giant clods of sticky, gooey mud, and, darn it, we all
had to stand in the drizzling rain and watch as the driver, an Indian
paratrooper lieutenant named Patel, gunned the throttle and spun the treads
clean, flinging mud everywhere as the RV fishtailed up away from the river. We
all laughed and clapped heartily, Patel had such a huge grin that I thought it
might crack his face wide open. Damn it, why had I not pulled rank and taken
the driver seat?

 

By the time we reached the third river, the drizzle
had become a steady rain, not yet the gusty downpour we expected from Skippy's
weather forecast. Skippy was testy about that, assuring me that just to the
north of us was a near hurricane-force storm; high winds straight out of the
north, and rain coming down in sheets. We paused the RV to get out and evaluate
the river, there was a gentle grassy slope right down into the water, same on
the other side. To the north, the sky was so dark it looked like night was
approaching from that direction, and it was only mid-afternoon. The river was
rushing fast, icy cold black water, big standing waves piling up over submerged
rocks, to my eyes it appeared the water level was rising as we stood there.
Chunks of ice floated by, bobbing on and ducking under the surface as the river
bounced them violently. Satellite images showed the long tongue of a retreating
glacier jutted out into the river not more than ten kilometers north of us, out
of sight around a bend in the river, ice was continually breaking off as the
river ate away at the base of the glacier. Getting into and out of the river
was going to be simple for the RV, the tricky part was going to be avoiding
submerged rocks and floating ice chunks.

"Let's go," I decided. A sudden chilly gust
of wind almost made me stagger on the bank of the river, reinforcing my
decision. We need to get across before that wind hits us full force." I
didn't want the bulky RV acting like a sail in the wind, while we were trying
to get across the river.

"Yes, sir," Smythe agreed. "Up in those
hills," he pointed across the river, "are several good spots we could
wait out the storm overnight."

We got back in the RV, shed our wet jackets, and
started down the bank toward the river. Our driver was Patel again, he'd taken
a break after driving us across the second river, I wanted an experienced
person at the controls for this last major river crossing. Patel flashed us a
confident thumbs up before the nose of the RV hit the water, then he focused
completely on the task of getting us safely across. The RV bobbed alarmingly
once it was fully afloat, the current was so strong that Patel had to point the
RV's nose partly upriver in order to hold a straight course. A straight course
wasn't going to work, the river bed was cluttered with rocks we could see and
rocks we couldn't see, the RV was a technological wonder but for some reason,
the Kristang hadn't fitted it with sonar to detect underwater obstacles. We had
to guess where rocks were hidden under the surface by watching waves and
ripples, something many of us, including me, knew from canoeing or kayaking. A
canoe or kayak drew so little water that it could glide over obstacles that
were covered by very little water, that was not true of the RV, its bottom was
a meter or more below the surface, and with the pontoons plunging up and down
in the increasingly angry waves, at times the bottom of the RV was considerably
more than a meter deep. We hadn't gone fifty meters before there was a bump,
and the RV ground its way over a submerged rock, a rock too deep to create a
standing wave, but deep enough for the RV to bottom out. "Sorry,"
Patel said from the driver's seat. The RV was only hung up on the rock a moment,
it popped up and rode over the rock, then Patel needed to swing the RV
downstream to avoid another rock. In the seat to the right of Patel was SAS
Lieutenant Crispin, scouting for Patel to find a path across the river that
avoids underwater obstacles. Smythe suggested Crispin was well suited to that
task, he had gone to the Olympic Trails for the British kayaking team.

"Not his fault, sir," Crispin defended
Patel, "these rocks are damned hard to see. And this bloody caravan draws
too much water. Right, right," he shouted.

Patel swung the RV to the right again, and the RV
plunged downstream, rocking and rolling on the rough water. For the next ten
minutes, Crispin and Patel tried to get the RV into the middle of the river,
where we hoped deeper water would allow us to avoid hitting rocks, at that
point we had already bumped and scraped over three unseen objects. Patel got
the RV turned directly upstream and held it in place, while Crispin looked for
a way out of the box the RV was in. There were large rocks sticking out of the
water to the right, left and downstream. Upstream was an underwater rock we'd
already hit once, we didn't want to run over it again. Skippy said the RV was
tough, and had an extra tough skid plate on the bottom to protect against the
hull getting a hole punched in it from running over rocks. How tough that skid
plate was, if we hit a sharp rock, was something I didn't want to test. 

"Take your time, Crispin," I said gently.
The motion of the RV was almost making me seasick, I wished the RV had more
windows.

"We'll get out of here, s- oh, shit!"
Crispin shouted.

Upstream from us, there were ice flows stretching from
shore to shore, coming around a bend in the river. A large piece of the glacier
must have broken off, and been battered into multiple chunks on its way down
the river. This was my fault, we knew the river had ice floating down it
regularly, and I should have anticipated that with the storm to the north of
us, the river level was higher than normal, bringing extra ice. What I should
have done was send a couple people upriver, someplace high where they had a
view of what was coming, to determine when was a good time for the RV to
attempt a crossing. Like an idiot, I blindly ordered us to drive the RV across.

Chunks of ice were smashing against rocks, against
each other, rolling over, breaking into smaller pieces, as the ice flood
rapidly approached. "Patel, go straight for shore," I ordered,
"as much as you can, I'd rather risk bottoming out on a rock, than getting
hit with some of that ice." Many pieces of ice were almost half the size
of the RV, they could break a pontoon, or even knock the RV over in the water.

We almost made it. Fifty meters from the shore, Patel
swung upriver to the left in order to avoid a rock that was barely under the
water, and a large chuck of ice slammed into the left pontoon. The impact swung
the RV's nose upriver, and the raging water made the nose keep going to the
left, out of control. Suddenly, the RV was pointed downriver, gathering speed,
headed straight for two large rocks. Patel had the water jets screaming in full
reverse, he was barely able to hold position. "I think the left pontoon is
taking on water," he shouted, "the RV wants to spin to the left.
Crispin, do you see a way-"

His words were cut off by a sickening crunch as the RV
was battered again by a small iceberg. Looking out the small window, for a
flash all I saw was a wall of ice, and for a moment my idiotic brain thought of
the 
Titanic
. The RV lurched down and to the left as the iceberg hit,
then rode up on the pontoon. There was an earsplitting screech as the pontoon
slid along the iceberg, then it was gone in one direction and the RV spun the
other way.

The left pontoon was now clearly battered and sinking,
I was sitting on the left side of the RV and I could tell. Patel reported the
left side water jet was operating sluggishly, and I directed him to head
straight for shore. The RV was going under, I wanted us to get as close to the
river bank as possible before it went down. Patel did a great job driving, he
got the RV downstream from a large rock, semi protected from large pieces of
ice, and headed for the shore using what power remained. The water jet in the
left pontoon was barely functioning at that point. The RV grounded on an unseen
rock, and couldn't move. "I think we're stuck, sir," Patel said with
regret. "The water jets are on full power, but we can't go forward or
back."

That was it, I wasn't waiting any longer. Out the
front windows, the shore was tantalizingly close. "We're sinking! Captain
Smythe, get everyone to shore, Williams, you're with me!"

I staggered to the back of the RV, Williams and his
three man SEAL team right behind me, and opened the door to the cargo
compartment. The RV was sinking fast now, tilted to the left at a thirty degree
angle and judging by the grinding sounds, was being pushed back out into the
river. We had less, far less, than a minute before the RV would have slid back
away from the river bank and into water deep enough to be over our heads. In
that icy cold, fast-moving water, it was unlikely anyone who had to swim would
survive. "Armor, we need one full set of armor, leave everything
else," I explained. Between the five of us, six because Smythe of course
interpreted my orders broadly and came back into the cargo box with us, we got
all the components for a set of armor. "Leave it," I ordered, as
Smythe tried to pick up a rifle. "That's an order, go!"

Behind me, I closed and firmly latched the door to the
cargo compartment, where almost all our precious supplies were stored. Water,
bitterly cold water was already collecting around my ankles as we squeezed
through the door, bumping into each other as the RV rocked back and forth.
Water was pouring in through the right side emergency hatch, I saw people were
shuffling along the right pontoon to hop into the water, Patel and Crispin were
still in the RV, they'd given up trying to get out the right side hatch, and
Patel was working the controls of the roof hatch. He got it open, took hold of
the lip around the hatchway, and swung himself through it. At this point, the
RV was at a forty five degree angle to the left, and bucking like a bronco as
it slid backwards, battered by waves.

How we all got out, I don't remember exactly. Somehow,
both Smythe and Williams got out behind me even though I'd intended to be the
last to leave. By the time Smythe came through the hatch, the RV was almost
laying on its left side, and we had to crawl along the right side to the nose,
kneel on a front window, and jump into the water. It was up to my chest, and I
gasped in shock at the deathly cold. The cold and strong current, combined with
the armor suit leg I had a death drip on, made me unsteady, I would have fallen
backwards and been swept away except people had formed a human chain to the
shore, Ranger Samuels got a firm grip on my arm and guided me to shore.
"Thank you," I told her, and handed the armor suit leg to her once
the water was only as deep as my waist. I stood in the shockingly cold water,
trying to ignore it, helping Williams and then Smythe get to safety, more importantly,
assuring the precious components of the armor suit got safely to shore. As
Smythe, last to leave, jumped off the nose, the RV lurched backwards, partly
afloat again. We got onto the shore, me crawling the last meter on my hands and
knees, then we all stood in stunned silence for a moment, as we watched the RV
drift down the river, sinking quickly, until it hit and became wedged between
two rocks, then it slowly disappeared. The right pontoon was visible under the
water from time to time, in the troughs of waves.

Shaking myself back to awareness, I stepped onto a
rock so I could see the assembled crowd. "Is anyone hurt? Other than wet
and cold?"

"Mild ankle sprains, nothing more," girl
reported, she was kneeling next to Captain Zhang, who had his right boot off
and winced as girl manipulated his ankle.

"I'm fine, Colonel, I stumbled on a rock,"
Zhang assured me.

"Good," I said stupidly. Damn, as a
commanding officer, I wasn't being very helpful. "Captain Smythe, we have
a lot of people in cold, wet clothing here, and a storm is coming." The
wind was now gusting, and rain was occasionally coming down almost sideways.
Find us some place out of the weather, and make sure everyone uses their heat
packs, if needed. I don't want anyone getting sick out here." Everyone
had, or should have, chemical packets that could be mixed to generate heat,
they are available in any hardware or sporting goods store, not some fancy
alien technology. "Lieutenant Williams, you SEALs are our swimmers, bring
the suit components over here. Let's put it together and see what we can do
with it."

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY THREE

 

While Williams and his team got the suit sorted out,
checked out, and Taylor into it, I took a moment to get my head together. This
could be a disaster; all our equipment, all our weapons, all our food, all our
extra clothing, tents, everything we needed for survival, was in that sunken
RV. I was in shock, trying to process how things had gone so bad so quickly.
Skippy later figured out what happened. The storm had dumped an enormous deluge
of water to the north of us, water that very rapidly rushed down streams,
swelling the river. Because a tongue of a glacier blocked two thirds of the
river channel, the water briefly piled up behind the glacier, until the
pressure fractured off pieces ice ancient ice, and the wall of water found a
path downstream. When we arrived at the river, we should have noticed that the
water was already over its usual banks, that was why there as a nice gentle
grassy slope for us to drive down. We should have been suspicious, I should
have been suspicious of the high water, I'd thought it an optical illusion that
the river seemed to be rising. It wasn't an illusion. The chunks of ice
floating down the river should also have caused me to be extra cautious, there
was a lot of ice in the water. If I'd ordered us to wait for morning, like I
should have, we would have noticed that the water level was rising, and more
and larger chunks of ice were coming around the bend upriver. I was too damned
eager to get across the river before the storm hit us. Like an idiot, I had not
even considered what the storm might be doing upriver.

It was both an accident, and my fault.

Looking back, I should have taken more time to study
the river, even pulled the RV back under a bluff to shelter for the night, and
crossed the next morning. We were ahead of schedule, the RV had enough juice
left in its powercells for another day and a half, before we would need to find
a place to hide it and begin walking. Maybe waiting for the morning would have
avoided the disaster, or maybe we would still have gotten rammed by a mini
iceberg, there were still plenty of them floating down the river.

 

Williams was satisfied the suit was fully operational,
and he reported Taylor was ready to try using it in the water. "We're go
for a test, sir," he reported.

"Skippy," I asked, "what's our weather
forecast?"

He responded immediately. "The storm to the north
has abated somewhat and shifted its track to the west, I now expect most of it
to miss your location. You will get gusty winds and rain in about two hours,
lasting several hours."

"Thank you, Skippy. All right," I declared,
"let's move now, before the weather gets worse. The longer the RV is in
the water, the greater risk it will shift, or equipment will spill out and get
lost downstream. It would be best for a recovery operation to wait for morning,
we don't have that long."

"We recover weapons first," Smythe
suggested.

"No," I said emphatically. "Taylor,
your first priority is to recover the parts for another suit, then two divers
can get the components for the other two suits. We need the suits first, we
don't know how long it will take to get everything we need out of the RV, and a
single suit may run out of power before then. We'll use two suits for
recovering our equipment, save the other two suits for the assault."

"Makes sense, sir," Williams agreed, and
helped Taylor attach his helmet.

"Spotter team," I asked over my zPhone,
"How is it looking?"

The spotter team was two people on a hill upriver,
where they had a good view. Setting up a spotter team is what I should have
done before we tried to cross the river. "Good, sir, some ice coming down,
nothing like before."

Through their zPhones, I could see what they were
seeing. Widely scattered pieces of ice, a diver should be able to avoid them
without too much trouble. We didn't have much of a choice anyway. "The ice
situation is manageable. Are you good in there?" I asked over my zPhone
earpiece to Taylor.

"Good," Taylor replied over the radio, with
his helmet faceplate closed, he gave us a thumbs up. "We've never used
these for swimming."

"Understood, do your best. Don't rush to get to
the RV, go out and practice swimming first, we can't risk you crashing into the
RV, or breaking the suit on a rock, or getting hit by ice. Approach the RV from
downstream," I advised stupidly. A SEAL didn't need my advice about
underwater operations.

Taylor walked confidently to the shore, stepped in
carefully, then awkwardly as he got in deeper and the current threatened to
knock his feet out from under him. "I'm going to dive in now, the footing
is loose here," he said, and leapt into the water. For a heart-stopping
moment, he disappeared under the surface. We could hear him breathing heavily on
the radio. Then, he popped to the surface, swimming strongly, making progress
against the current. "I'm getting used to it," he reported, "the
power in this suit is really incredible. The stabilizers help, I don't know
that I could control the suit without them, they do a lot of the work for
me."

"Keep going," Williams ordered, "go up
to that rock, turn around, and see how it is moving with the current. Watch out
for that ice."

"I see it." For twenty minutes, not
venturing out any further than the sunken RV, Taylor swam on the surface, under
the surface, with the current, against the current, dodging chunks of ice.
"I'm ready, sir, I've got the hang of this. I want to recon the RV
now."

"What do you think?" I asked Williams.

He thought a moment, and replied "Typically we'd
call a rest before proceeding."

"I'm good, sir, really I am," Taylor said.
He was treading water easily, just downstream from the sunken RV. "This
suit does most of the work for you, it's very strong. The radar even works
pretty good underwater, I can see underwater obstacles on the faceplate
display. I'd like to go now, sir, this make take a while, and we're losing
daylight, and I hear the wind is going to pick up soon."

"I recommend he goes, sir." Williams said.

"Lieutenant, I know nothing about underwater
recovery," I admitted, "this is your operation. Get us another suit
first, so we can have two divers working together."

 

Our three SEALs worked through the night, using two
suits. With people on land acting as spotters for ice chunks, the divers were
able to avoid a single accident, other than a minor incident of one diver
getting a foot tangled in cables inside the RV, it only took a minute to cut
himself free and he was never in any danger. The wind hit us after dark, and
the divers took a break for an hour until the worst of the weather had blown
over us. Taylor first recovered all the components of the second suit in seven
dives. We assembled the recovered suit, checked it out and Williams declared it
ready for use. Williams took one dive with Taylor to learn, then Taylor led
Williams inside the RV, working as a team. As ordered, they got the other two
powered suits first, then I instructed Williams to bring up tents and food
before weapons, everyone on shore was still shivering and I thought we couldn't
risk people becoming seriously ill. By that time, Williams was confident in the
SEALs' diving abilities, and that the RV was solidly wedged against a rock and
not going anywhere. By the middle of the following morning, they had recovered
everything we truly needed from the sunken RV, and, incredibly, even the stupid
Barney doll.

At first, I was a little bit pissed. Not that I would
continue to be taunted by Barney, but that one of our SEALs had risked his
life, and expended precious suit power, to recover a stuffed doll. Williams
calmed me down, explaining that the windshield had broken sometime during the
night, and the Barney had torn loose and ended up wedged under a seat. He had
brought the Barney back as a sort of mascot, or good luck charm, and I had to
admit, people had cheered loudly when he emerged from the river, holding Barney
above his head. So, we were stuck with it, damn it.

 

The two suits that had been used by the SEALs were
down to less than 15% of their normal power charge, the one Taylor started with
had only 12%. The energy required for swimming against the river current had
drained power quickly from the suits, and because of the frigid water, the
suits had to run their heaters, draining power even faster.

"Suits can't transfer power one another,"
Smythe observed bitterly. "We've got two disassembled, fully charged
suits, and two that will only last maybe one day of walking."

"Yeah. Hey, Skippy," I asked, "can you
run the math for us on how much weight each of the depleted suits can carry,
for the best trade-off between cargo capacity and range? We'll remove the
helmet and arms from the depleted suits."

"Please, Joe, that kind of kindergarten
arithmetic is beneath me. Since you asked, I recommend a payload of fifty seven
kilos for each suit. That will allow travel of roughly sixty kilometers, in the
terrain you have in front of you."

"Great, thank you, Skippy." To Smythe, I
said "Having suits carry part of the load for a while will help us ease
into walking. Sitting in the RV too many days made my legs stiff. Take the
helmets and arms off the two suits we'll be using as pack mules, and bury them
along with whatever else we're not taking with us. Divvy up the loads first so
I can see how much each person will be carrying, and Captain?"

"Sir?"

"I know you special forces types are hard core, I
do not want to see anyone so loaded down with gear that they risk injury, or
being too worn out when we get to the scavenger camp. Skippy made his pizza
delivery, we can count on replenishing our food supply. I want to move out in
two hours, that will give us seven hours of daylight for walking and setting up
camp tonight. We're going to take it easy the first day."

"Yes, sir," Smythe said, and I could see in
his eyes he was unconvinced. And probably regretting that the team included me
and two civilians.

"Good. Plan for me to carry ammo packs and part
of a suit. Don't worry, Captain," I added after seeing his skeptical look,
"if I can't handle it, I will tell you."

Leaving Smythe to bark orders, I walked over to Doctors
Zheng and Tanaka, who were helping sort through a pile of wet, muddy clothing.
It was all wet from being in the river, and despite laying out a collapsed tent
to keep the clothes off the ground, most of it had some mud smeared here and there.
"How are you?"

"I'd be better if I could get into some dry
clothes," Zheng admitted. "Colonel, training for triathlons can
involve getting cold and wet for a while, I'm used to that. What I'm not used
to is not getting a shower and warm dry clothes after. It's tiring. This is
like one of those twenty four hour endurance events that I've always
avoided."

"If I were one of my patients," Tanaka
remarked, "I would be treating myself for exposure, and possible
hypothermia."

"I understand that. We'd all be doing a lot
better if the RV hadn't sunk. We're going to start walking in about two hours,
I know that will help me warm up. We'll be walking further than planned, we'd
hoped to stretch the RV's power supply for another two days. Don't worry, we
anticipated setbacks in the schedule. You only need to carry your personal gear
and medical supplies, the SpecOps team will take everything else."

"What are you carrying?" Tanaka asked.

"My personal gear, plus ammunition, and part of
an armored suit. This is not going to be easy, I really appreciate you coming
with us, and the sacrifices you're making."

"We'll get through it," Zheng said with
determination. "I hope this is all a waste of our time."

"Oh?" I said in surprise. "Why?"

"Because," she explained, "if you need
doctors on this mission, something will have gone wrong, won't it?"

 

We began the walk without ceremony, once I was
satisfied people were not carrying unrealistic loads, I gave Smythe the
go-ahead order, and he sent two men ahead as scouts. Knowing what the terrain
along our projected path looked like from satellite images was one thing,
seeing the real conditions on the ground was quite another. The scouts would
check out our route, advise of shortcuts, impassible terrain, and hopefully
avoid everyone else having to double back. Smythe planned to rotate the scout
duties; two people in the morning, two in the afternoon. Being a scout was a
highly sought-after assignment, as the scouts carried only light loads, and
weren't tramping along in well-trodden mud with the rest of us.

I began walking with the Rangers, out of service
loyalty, then dropped back in the column to check on the SEAL team. While the
rest of us had been shivering on shore, trying to catch sleep in shifts, the
three SEALs had worked through the night. "How are you, Lieutenant?"

"We're all right, sir," Williams answered.
"Compared to some of our training, this is a piece of cake."

"And the food is better," Garcia said while
eating something out of an MRE pouch.

"Any food is good at this point," Taylor
agreed.

"When we came out here, I didn't think the 'Sea'
part of SEa Air Land in 'SEAL' would be of any use," Williams admitted. 

I nodded. "Lieutenant, one thing I've learned is,
you never know what you'll need out here, it pays to have a wide variety of
capabilities with you. I didn't think an archeologist, or geologist, would be
useful in space, and now I'm glad we brought them along. Finding those ruins
has given Skippy a puzzle he can't explain. The strangest things can have a use
out here, even a knowledge of, hell, what was that, Skippy, 17th century
Hungarian poetry?"

"Correct," he said.

Williams looked at me in complete surprise.

"It's a long story," I said simply,
"you've seen how Skippy can get off topic at times."

"Although, as I pointed out at the time,"
Skippy continued, "even a cursory familiarity of European romantic
literature of the Baroque-"

"Yes, Skippy," I interrupted as Williams
broke into a knowing grin, "thank you, another time, Ok?"

"You always say that, but there's never a time
you deem as appropriate," Skippy said in a peevish tone. "Man, I am
trying to bring culture to monkeys, and this is the thanks I get."

"Tell you what, Skippy," I winked to
Williams, "you get us safely off this rock, and I will dedicate one, no,
two, 
two
 full hours, for you to regale me with whatever topic you
desire. Without interruption."

"Huh. You say that now, but-"

"Have I ever made a commitment to you and not
kept it? Like, leaving Earth and coming out here on this fool's errand to find
your magic radio?"

"Perhaps you have a point. Two hours, huh? I
shall prepare accordingly. You're not going to regret this, Joe."

Crap. I was regretting it already.

"Taking one for the team, sir?" Williams
asked. "We appreciate it."

Shaking my head ruefully, I replied "You have no
idea."

 

Damn I was tired. And this was only the first freakin'
day, not even a full day. For the past hour, the straps of my pack could no
longer be adjusted not to be uncomfortable, they were digging into my shoulders
and hips. Also for the past hour, I had been watching clouds build in the
northern sky, and the wind had been gusting in our faces. "Skippy," I
asked, "weather report."

"Sucky, with a hundred percent chance of it
continuing to be sucky. You're going to get heavy rain in about two hours,
maybe less. The rain should be gone by morning, most of it, anyway."

"Thank you, Skippy. Captain Smythe!" I
raised my voice so he could hear over the wind, as he was fifty meters ahead of
me. He waited for me to catch up, I hustled as best I could without completely
losing my dignity. "Take five, everyone," I shouted. To Smythe, I
said "Time to look for place to camp for the night, I want us to set up
camp within the hour."

"Sir?" He pointed looked at his watch.
"There's plenty of daylight remaining."

"Captain," I said, pulling the pack straps
wide to give my aching shoulders a break, "this is why you need me with
you. When you're on a march with the SAS, no one wants to be the first to call
for a halt, right?"

"It's a matter of pride, sir."

"Exactly. It's even worse here, because the SAS
don't want to stop before the Rangers, who don't want to stop before the
Chinese, who don't want to stop before the Indian paratroopers, and so on. I'm
not special forces, so I can call a halt without my pride getting hurt. And
every one of us could use a rest. Skippy says there's heavy rain coming,"
I pointed to the clouds rolling in from the northeast, "I don't want us to
get caught out in that, we're still ahead of schedule and there's no reason for
us to push unnecessarily. The last thing we need is people risking further
exposure in this climate."

"Yes, sir, another hour. I'll tell scouts ahead
to find us a spot?"

 

Forty minutes later, Smythe touched his zPhone
earpiece, talked with someone, then dropped back to walk with me. "There's
a spot up ahead where we can camp, sir. The lads say there's another campsite a
bit further, but that spot could get a bit dodgy, if we get heavy rain."
On his zPhone, he showed me the images the scouts had taken of the two sites.
The one further away was in the shelter of a bluff, protecting us from the
wind, it also had a stream that could overflow and flood the campsite if the
rain came down heavily.

"Yeah, that further site is out, too risky. Last
thing we need is for everything to get wet again." The other site was a
flat spot on the south side of a hill, it was more exposed to the gusty winds,
it also wasn't going to flood. "We have to walk over that hill anyway,
we'll set up there." I felt like a scoutmaster on the worst Boy Scout
backpacking trip of all time; selecting campsites, making sure everyone had dry
socks. At least here I didn't have to worry about parents complaining that
their little Jimmy had come home with blisters and a mysterious rash.

 

The next morning, I already had sore muscles in place
that I didn’t know had muscles. Everyone was sore and tired, everyone got up
early that morning, no one complained, everyone pitched in to strike camp and
get us on our way. After half an hour, my muscles loosened up, and I felt
better. Then Skippy called me. "Hey, Joe."

"Hi, Skippy, What is it?"

"You busy? I want to tell you something I
discovered."

"Not busy at all, Skippy, we're walking, and
we've got a whole day of walking ahead of us. At least it's not raining right
now."

"That'll change, you're going to get rain and
sleet this afternoon."

"Sleet? Crap. I hate this planet."

"Unfortunately, Newark does not yet have a
comment section on Tripadvisor, for you to leave a complaint. So, what I want
to tell you is, I've been running an analysis with Doctor Venkman-"

"Oh, wow." Venkman was an astrophysicist, or
something like that, I'd read her profile and I still wasn't clear on her exact
specialty. "She's been helping you? That's great, Skippy."

"It is decidedly not great, Joe. Having a monkey
looking over my shoulder is a truly ginormous, epic, un-bee-lee-vah-bull, uh,
darn, it there are not words to properly describe how much that is a pain in
the 
ass
. You know how annoying it is for me, to try explaining even the
most basic science to your dim monkey brain?"

By now, I wasn't even mildly insulted by that remark.
"Uh huh, yeah? Mostly I tell you not to bother explaining sciency stuff to
me."

"Exactly! That's awesome, I get to yank your
chain, and you don't waste my time with worthless attempts to elevate your
understanding of things way beyond your capability. It's like, you can teach a
dog to shake a paw, sit, lie down, and even roll over, but you would never try
training a dog to do your taxes, or drive a car."

"Although that would be awesome. Except if the
dog was driving, and decided to chase a squirrel with your car."

"Agreed," Skippy chuckled, "anywho,
when I'm talking to you, I don't have to waste time trying to think of a way to
dumb things down enough for you. Hell, I could just make up stuff, and you'd
never know."

"But you don't do that, right?" 

"Not as far as you know. With Doctor Venk-"

"Hey! I heard that. Not as far as 
I

know?"

"Does it really matter, Joe?"

"I guess not."

"Truthfully, no, I don't make up stuff for you,
it wouldn't be any fun. Now, with a slightly, and I do mean slightly,
infinitesimally slightly smarter monkey like Doctor Venkman, it would be great
fun to make up stuff, because she knows just enough to almost know the
difference, and I'd be kind of laughing my ass off at her."

"But you don't do that either?"

"Not as far as she knows."

"Skippy, come on, our science team came out here
to learn how the universe works, you leading them astray isn't helping. It
isn't fair, either, these people are risking their lives out here."

"Man, you are a total buzzkill. Remind me never
to invite you to a party, Joe. Those dummies on your science team, and, man I
hate to use the word 'science' so loosely, volunteered to come out here. Look,
in a lot of cases, I can't tell your egghead scientists the whole truth,
because such knowledge is too dangerous for monkeys. Not just monkeys, too dangerous
for any species at your level of development. Some of it is too dangerous even
for the Rindhalu, I'm not simply insulting monkeys. This is serious stuff,
Joe."

"Oh."

"Yeah, oh. You dumdum." He paused. "Uh,
what were we talking about?"

Skippy couldn't keep track of a conversation, and he
called me the dumdum? I let it go. "Some kind of analysis you're doing
with Venkman."

"Oh, yeah. Although to say that I'm performing
the analysis with her, is like when you were four years old, and your father
would put you on his lap when he drove the pickup truck, so you could 'help'
him drive. Incidentally, that wasn't the smartest thing to do."

"That old truck doesn't have an airbag, Skippy.
And there's no traffic on the back roads up where I grew up."

"Exactly! What if you hit a moose?"

"Oh my God. Did you ever see a moose, Skippy? You
hit one of those big freakin' things, a children’s carseat isn't much help.
Well, maybe. Whatever. I survived childhood."

"Is that how the brain damage happened?"

"Very funny. No, that's just me."

"My condolences. To your entire species, not just
you. Back to what I was saying, Venkman helping with my analysis, is like
little Joey helping your father drive the truck, it's more hindrance than help.
She is just smart enough to ask a whole lot of stupid questions, whereas you're
too dumb to even ask questions in the first place. That's why I prefer working
with you, Joe."

"Thank you, I think."

"You're welcome," he said, after insulting
me. "Getting back to the point, we ran an analysis. Technically, I ran the
analysis, while she sat in the corner, playing with blocks and eating sticky
Cheerios off the floor."

"Ha!" I had to laugh at that mental image.
"See, I would play with the toy trucks instead. Much more fun than
blocks."

"I'll take your word on that, Joe. The results of
our analysis are intriguing, they are so intriguing, so disturbing, so
inexplicable, that I want us to gather data for further analysis. Someday, I
mean, not right now."

"Skippy, I have no problem with gathering further
data, first you need to get us off this planet. What, uh, is so intriguing? You
find a tiny difference in the concentration of interstellar dust particles
somewhere again?"

"No, you dumbass. What is intriguing is, here, I
need to go back a bit and give you some context."

"Ok, I'm all ears, I won't interrupt you, I
promise." He had good timing, because we had started walking up a long
hill, and I was getting out of breath.

"You remember the star system where I was sure,
or pretty, very certain, I, Ok, yeah, smart guy. Stupid monkey," he
grumbled. "I know you're thinking it, go ahead and say it. Say it! I was
wrong. Wrong! There, you happy now? You big jerkface," he grumbled.

"Skippy?'

"Yeah?"

"I have no freakin' clue," I said, out of
breath, "what you're talking about. We've been to a lot of star systems,
which one is this?"

"Oh. Hmm. Maybe I'm somewhat too sensitive about
the few, the very few times when I am wrong. Hmm, actually, in this case, I
thought I was wrong, but I wasn't. I wasn't! Ha! I was not wrong, I was right
all along."

"So, you were wrong about being wrong?"

"Exactly!"

"Which means you were still wrong, about
something."

"I was- oh, shut up. Do you want to hear my
information or not?"

"I've been trying," I gasped, "to hear
it, if you will please get to the point. Damn, you are absent-minded sometimes.
Your mind wanders so far, I wonder if it’s ever going to come back."

“
Me
? Have you ever heard yourself talk, Joe?
You start a sentence, and halfway through, you’ve changed the subject, verb and
object three times. Half the time you’re talking, by the time you finish, I’ve
lost track of where you started. And you’ve lost track, too.”

“Oh. All right, maybe I’m a little guilty of that,” I
admitted. That wasn’t the first time people had remarked on my scatter-brained
thoughts. “I had an elementary school teacher, Ms. Evans, she tried to diagram
one of my sentances on the white board. I thought her head would explode.
Anyway, back to the subject, 
please
.”

"Fine," he huffed. "The star system I
was talking about, is the one where I was very confident we would find an
unmapped Elder site. Extra confident."

"Uh, huh, something about force lines in the
galaxy?"

"Yes! And we didn't find any sign of an Elder
presence, even though I requested the 
Dutchman
 to fly around the system,
so I could perform an extensive sensor sweep."

"I remember," I said, using as few words as
possible, being out of breath.

"Even after gathering extensive sensor data, I
was originally unable to determine why that star system did not contain an
Elder site. What I was trying to do, with the sensor data, was to determine
whether that particular star system truly was an outstanding candidate for an
Elder site, and what I found was that, yes, it is a place where the Elders 
should

have had a facility of some sort. Certainly they should have placed a
communications node there. Why we did not find any sign the Elders had ever
been in that star system, therefore, has been a complete mystery to me. So
much, that I began to doubt my analytical skills, I began to doubt
myself."

"Yet, you bravely soldiered through your doubts,
and remained an arrogant asshole the whole time."

"Truly, I have reserves of arrogance I didn't
even know I had."

"Not something to brag about, Skippy."

"Not something for 
you
 to brag about,
monkey boy. To continue my story, it remained a mystery to me, until I was
trying to explain to Doctor Venkman what happened here, with Newark. She, and
the rest of what you monkeys outrageously, criminally, refer to as a 'science'
team, asked me a bunch of moronic questions about orbital mechanics. Seriously,
a bunch of booger-eating first graders could do that simple math. While
attempting to explain the math to Venkman and the other mental munchkins, to
the point where I was longing for the sweet release of death, it occurred to me
to run a check of orbits in that star system where there should have been an
Elder site. And guess what I discovered, with my first grade math?"

"Uh," I guessed, "that boogers don't
taste good?"

"Yuck. I've never tasted my own boogers,
Joe."

"Oh, for crying out loud, Skippy, you're not
supposed to eat 
other
 people's boogers! What the hell is wrong with
you?" Because people around me could only hear my end of the conversation,
I was getting a lot of strange looks from the walking party.

"I haven't- oh, forget it. Fine, I'll tell you
what I discovered. My analysis shows that I was right in the first place. There
was an Elder site in that star system, on a moon orbiting the largest gas
giant."

"Damn! Was it concealed by a stealth field?"

"No. Conceal an entire moon in a stealth field?
What the hell would be the point of doing that? Even the sensors on a Kristang
ship could detect the presence of a stealthed moon, by the effect of its
gravity on the other moons. Man, you have stupid notions sometimes. No, dumdum,
by saying 'was' I meant past tense, like, there used to be an Elder site, it's
not there now. That gas giant planet used to have an additional moon."

"What happened to it? Did it get pushed out of
orbit, like Newark?"

"No. And that is the intriguing, disturbing part,
Joe. My analysis shows the moon which housed the Elder site was destroyed, and
by 'destroyed', I don't mean it got hit by something and it broke into several
pieces. I mean it was obliterated, vaporized. Looking back over the sensor
data, now that I know what I was looking for, there are tiny particles of that
moon scattered all over that star system, likely part the moon's mass escaped
the star system entirely. That isn't the only disturbing part. Whatever
happened to that moon, it was so violent that it ripped away a large part of
the gas giant's atmosphere, I estimate between twelve and fourteen percent of
the planet's mass was blown out of its own orbit. For comparison, twelve
percent of that planet is equivalent to twenty Earths. That much mass being
blown away caused the planet's orbit to change suddenly, and that disrupted the
entire system, it even made the star wobble noticeably."

"What has the energy to vaporize an entire
moon?" I asked in amazement. Something had torn twenty Earth masses out of
a giant planet? Me saying that aloud made peoples' head turn, they must have
thought I was talking about something that happened recently, in Newark's star
system. I waved my hands, and gave a thumbs up, to let them know it was not a
problem for us. Not an immediate problem for us.

"Elder tech is the only possibility, Joe. That is
an extremely disturbing fact. First Newark, then that star system. Someone
pushed Newark out of orbit, presumably to commit genocide against a low-tech
species. Someone completely destroyed a moon, I assume to destroy the Elder
site there, because there is no other conceivable reason anyone would care
about such a worthless star system."

"Holy shit," I said, feeling a chill up my
spine.

"Joe, if we are ever threatened with technology
of that level, appealing to a higher power would be the best option, so you
might not want to avoid blasphemy."

"Do you have any guesses about who did this? And
why?"

"As to who, no, I have absolutely no idea. As to
why, as I already said, the only reason to blow up a moon that makes any sense
is to destroy the Elder facility, whatever it was."

"Uh," an unpleasant thought occurred to me,
and I stepped to the side and stopped walking, gesturing to Captain Smythe to
keep going, I would catch up to them. "Hey, I remember something the
burgermeister, you know, the hamster woman who was secretly the deputy
administrator of Paradise-"

"I know who she is, yes."

"Good. This burgermeister, she told me the whole
war started because the Maxohlx found a stash of Elder weapons, and attacked
the Rindhalu, who used Elder weapons to fight back. And then both sides got the
crap kicked out of them by the Sentinels, something like that, devices the
Elders left behind to make sure nobody messed with the stuff they left
behind?"

"Yeah, and?"

"Could something like that have happened to that
moon? Maybe some lower-tech species found a store of Elder weapons on that
moon, and screwed with them, and one of them exploded by accident?"

"No."

I waited for Skippy to say more, when he didn't say
anything, for enough time to be awkward, I said "No? You know that because
why?"

"Joe, you asked who, and why. I told you how;
some kind of Elder device, not necessarily a weapon. You did not ask 'when'.
The math of orbital mechanics tells me the moon was destroyed around two point
seven million years ago. The Rindhalu did not achieve space flight until around
one million years ago. There were not, as far as I know, any sentient star
faring species, any sentient species at all, in the Milky Way galaxy between
the Elders and the Rindhalu. So, no way could the Maxohlx, or the Rindhalu,
have been responsible for destroying that moon."

"Wait." A bell rang in my mind. "Two
point seven million years ago? That moon was destroyed around the same time
that Newark was pushed out of orbit?"

"Yes. This is all extremely suspicious."

"Damn it. We're back to the question of 'who'
again, then."

"That is an important question we need to answer.
Joe, as I have said before, this scares the hell out of me. Damn it! Things
used to be so simple. Difficult, yes, but simple. We find an Elder
communications node, I contact the Collective, and it would be Mission
Accomplished! Now, I don’t know what to do.”

“Wait! Skippy, we are going to attack the Kristang in
order to get the AI and a comm node, now you’re not sure whether you want them?
This is a hell of a time to change your freakin’ mind.”

“No, no, Joe, sorry, what I meant was, damn talking
with you biological trashbags is not easy. All I meant was, things have gotten
way complicated. I used to think I knew who I am, pretty much, and who the
Elders were, or are. And how I fit into the universe. What I was hoping for was
that I contact the Collective, and that solves all my problems. Now I’m
thinking, the effort to contact the Collective may only be the beginning of a
long struggle for me. Please, I do need you to get the AI and the comm node way
from those hateful lizards, and I truly appreciate all the hard work you and
your team are doing. Of course, when I say ‘appreciate’, I say that in the
definition of ‘grateful’, not that I can actually appreciate how physically
demanding it is for you monkeys to walk all that way.”

“Oh,” I said. That was much better. “Thanks, Skippy.”

“Just like you ignorant monkeys cannot truly
appreciate how difficult it is for me to rebuild a Thuranin starship out of raw
materials up here. Because you can’t.”

“Hey, Skippy, I also appreciate that you are making
the effort to be an arrogant asshole.”

“Oh, no problem, Joe.”

Damn. Sometimes I couldn’t tell when he was being
sarcastic, and when he was being simply clueless.

 Skippy continued. “However, I am disappointed in you,
Joe, you completely missed the most important point of my story."

"What? What is that?" What the hell could be
more important than a freakin' moon being vaporized, at a time when no sentient
species occupied the galaxy?

"That I was right all along, the star system did
have an Elder site, just like I predicted. Duh. I'm the best, baby! Woohoo!"

"Oh, for crying out loud," I said in
disgust. "That's what you think is the most important thing?"

"Sure. Come on, there isn't anything we can do
about that moon now, right?"

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR

 

Three nights later, after three hard days of marching
that had every muscle in my body aching, we gathered for dinner around a
pathetic campfire. During the day, we'd gathered broken pieces of the small,
low growing shrubs that were clustered around rocks on Newark, to make a fire.
The fire was for psychological effect, it wasn't hot enough to cook anything,
although a couple of Brits and Indians the heated up water for tea, and
everyone got a small cup. For Newark, out in the open, it was a nice evening;
temperature comfortable above freezing, it hadn't rained since early that
morning, and the wind had died down to a steady breeze out of the east. The
team needed this break together, instead of eating a hurried dinner in cramped
tents and crashing to exhausted sleep like we'd been doing.

"Hello, Colonel Joseph Bishop!" Skippy said
over my zPhone's speaker. "How are you this evening?"

"Fine," I mumbled over a mouthful of MRE
peanut butter and crackers, "we're eating dinner around a campfire, sort
of. What's up?"

"Well, sir, I have an exciting opportunity for
you. For a limited time, we are offering a greatly reduced price on wonderful
timeshares on Newark."

"Damn," I had to laugh, trying not to spew
precious crackers on my lap. "Skippy, who the hell would buy a timeshare
on this miserable planet?"

"Joe, Joe, Joe," he scolded me. "You're
missing the point entirely. Think about this; if you purchase our Basic
timeshare package of one week on Newark, that means you do NOT have to be on
Newark the other fifty one weeks a year."

"Oh," everyone around me laughed, "in
that case, hell yes, sign us all up."

"You won't regret this, sir. Seriously, Joe,
how's it going down there? I know what the weather is like, that doesn't tell
me how our Merry Band of Pirates are faring right now. By the way, it looks like
you have a mix of snow and sleet coming tomorrow afternoon, then it will clear
up and go back to damp, chilly and partly sunny."

"Snow? Crap, isn't this almost summer on this
freakin' planet? And we're on the freakin' equator here. You are not acting as
our travel agent the next time we look for a planet. Skippy, what we have down
here is officially a not-very-Merry Band of Pirates. The gravity is too high,
the temperature is too low, and it's hard to breathe even when you're only
walking. Other than that, we're doing just wonderful. How's it going up
there?" 

"Well, heh, heh, funny you should ask."

"Oh, shit." I hated that 'well, heh, heh'
thing he did, and by now, the whole team knew what it meant when he did that,
hey all looked at me with alarm. I put in my zPhone earpiece and turned off the
speakerphone feature, so we could talk privately. Not wanting to be rude, I
stood up and stepped away from the fire. "What is it this time? Did
somebody forget to turn the stove off before we left?" Man, I was hoping
whatever the problem was, it was simple. "It's not like I can go back up
there and fix it, Skippy."

"The stove is not a problem, since I already
mentioned that the ship currently does not have a galley. I’m working on that. Anywho,
to be serious for a moment, Joe, one of the dropships had a slight
accident."

"Slight? Like, you scratched the paint, or dented
the fender?"

"Uh, no. Slight, like a gas pocket on a moon
exploded when I drilled into it, the dropship flipped over and now it's stuck
in a hole."

"What the hell, Skippy! Damn it, I leave you nice
toys to play with, and you break them. I can't trust you with anything valuable
up there."

"Hey, to be fair, I'm working almost blind up
here. That moon contained minerals I need, and its orbit currently has it on
the other side of the planet, I was using the dropship's crappy sensors to see
what I was doing. The sensors didn't detect the gas pocket, because the
Thuranin, here's a real shocker for you, didn't design their dropships to be
used as drilling rigs. Anyway, I have another dropship on the scene, and I'm
using combots to dig the first dropship out. It should be fine, except we'll
need a new one, because the cabin got kind of crushed and it won't hold air
pressure any more. Also, I wouldn't try flying it down through an atmosphere at
this point, the heat shield is not in good shape."

"BLUF it for me, Skippy, Ok?"

"What?"

"Bottom Line Up Front. BLUF. Tell me the
important stuff first. Come on, you know US military slang."

"Oh, yeah. All right. The bottom line is this
little accident will add a week, maybe more, to the schedule. Most likely,
sixteen days. I have to divert resources to recover and repair the dropship,
and while I'm doing that, the dropship won't be mining ore for me. While I'm
fixing that busted dropship, I will still be working on the 
Dutchman
,
however, work on the ship will be delayed. There is no way around it, before
you ask me some stupid questions. This was always a substantial risk, Joe. My
original estimate had likely delays built into the schedule, so this delay only
adds eight days to when I expect the ship to be functional again."

I sighed. "Understood, Skippy. You're doing the
impossible up there, we appreciate it. And I won't insult you by telling you to
be careful."

"Indeed, you do not need to tell me to be
careful. I'm working on the edge here already, Joe, it would not take much to
tip the scales, so that I'm using up resources faster than I'm creating new
ones."

"You won't let that happen, right?" I asked
hopefully.

"I'm doing my best."

What scared me was his voice didn't have the usual
snarky cockiness to it. He was scared, or at least very concerned.

And, from Newark, there was absolutely nothing we
could do about it.

 

Skippy's pizza delivery had soft landed in a swampy
area, we had to wade through bone-chilling water up to our waists to get to it.
Part of me was wondering if Skippy had done that on purpose, although I'm sure
he had done the best he could from the other side of the star system. By the
time we got through the icy water to the package, I couldn't feel my legs. Or
my balls. The container was roughly twice the size of a large foot locker, it
was jammed packed, partly with medical supplies we might need after the
assault, most of it was food. Sort of food. It was dehydrated sludges, all of
it. What the assault team needed was basic nutrition, not gourmet food. We got
the container back to dry land and popped it open. Soldiers began pulling out
the contents and laying it out on the ground for sorting.

"Chocolate-banana, plain banana,
strawberry-banana, banana curry. Sir, most of these are some type of banana
flavor," Williams announced in consternation.

"Oh, crap," I slapped my forehead.
"Skippy thinks monkeys love bananas!" I groaned, frustrated. "If
we get another delivery, I'll request a better variety of flavors."

Captain Gomez uncapped a sludge, poured water in to
rehydrate it, shook it up, and drained it in one gulp. "Food is
fuel," he shrugged, "we can eat real food when we get back to the 
Flying

Dutchman
."

"Right. Everyone," I reminded people,
"we bury our trash, can't have a Kristang ship seeing empty sludge packets
laying on the ground. And let's drag the empty container into water deep enough
that it will sink, put some rocks in to make sure." To set an example, I
picked up a sludge packet without checking the flavor, poured water in, and
gulped it down. It was, maybe, supposed to be plain banana flavor? You couldn't
quite tell with Thuranin sludges, most of them had a nasty artificial taste.

 

When we got the sludge supply back out of the swamp
and unpacked, we divided them up evenly. "Does everyone have real food
left?" I asked Smythe quietly.

"I think so, sir. Everyone ate a good breakfast
this morning."

"I saw that." I'd been watching people from
signs of fatigue, nagging injuries, and that no one was skimping on nutrition.
"I have eight MREs left, I'm going to save them for anyone who is
wounded."

"Sir?"

"Captain, I've survived on sludges before, it's
not new to me. They provide energy, and they will sustain you, you will also
get heartily sick of drinking them very quickly. If anyone is wounded out here,
it's going to be quite some time before they can get full medical treatment,
aboard the 
Dutchman
. I'd like them to have at least real food to eat,
keep their spirits up."

"Oh, good thinking," he agreed. "I'll
get a bag together." Smythe put an empty bag on the ground, and I asked
people to donate one real food item, explaining that the bag would be reserved
for injured soldiers, or to be rationed out as treats after the battle, while
we waited for Skippy to fix the 
Dutchman
.

"I have eight incredibly delicious MREs
here," I said as I held them up for view. "Five American, two
French," I nodded to Giraud, who had traded with me earlier,
"and," I peered at the wrapper, "I guess this one is Chinese?
I'll start the kitty by donating all of them. I'm tired of carrying the damned
things anyway."

That drew a chuckle, and I put the MREs in the bag.
"One only, if you have it to spare, keep the rest for yourself. Trust me,
you are going to get very tired of existing on nothing but sludges."

"He speaks the truth," Giraud testified,
sticking his tongue out disgustedly, and we bumped fists. Neither of us wanted
to remember that unpleasant aspect of our first time aboard the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
.

We got a good donation, and the bag then held thirty
five real meals of various types. None of it could be considered yummy, all of
it had to taste better than a sludge. Smythe switched off the duties of
carrying the goodie bag between soldiers, and we were extra super careful with
it while crossing streams. I noticed that for the next four days, no one that I
could see ate anything except sludges. Our shared suffering in that regard was
a bonding experience. To spare the inexperienced the worst of the ordeal, I
falsely let it be known that I didn't mind the plain banana flavor, which
actually was among the very worst of the sludges. The plain banana, unmasked by
other less-unpleasant flavors like chocolate, strawberry or even curry, was
just bland, artificial, gritty and had an oily mouthfeel that lingered nastily
on your tongue. It was my fault for not requesting a better variety of flavors
from Skippy, although now that I thought about it, there hadn't been a whole
lot of sludges left aboard the 
Dutchman
 when we began the second voyage,
and no one had thought to request Skippy to make more. No one, like me. Since
no one liked the banana flavors, maybe Skippy had sent us whatever we had, left
over from the first voyage. Doubly my fault. Either way, I ended up with
nothing but dehydrated plain banana sludges, having traded away all the less
nasty flavors. Every sip of oily, gritty bland sludge reminded me about the
value of planning ahead. That is certainly a lesson I wasn't going to forget.
All I can say is, when we finally got back aboard the rebuilt 
Flying
 
Dutchman
,
I was going to eat delicious, juicy cheeseburgers for breakfast, lunch and
dinner every day the first week. Even if we no longer had a galley, and I had
to grill the burger over a reactor.

When we'd collected the real food, I selected a sludge
at random from my pack, popped the cap, and poured water in to rehydrate it.
"Drink up, everyone, enjoy your yummy sludge. And, hey, today is Friday.
Only two more working days until Monday!"

 

Despite how tired I was that night, I walked away from
the campsite, in order to talk to Skippy in private. While I told myself that I
wanted to thank him for the food, I had to admit that I missed talking with his
irascible self. No one had insulted me for several days, it felt weird. “Hey,
Skippy, how you doing up there?”

“Busy,” he said tersely.

“Oh,” I said, feeling awkward, “sorry, I’ll leave you
alone then.”

“No need, Joe, I’m not 
that
 busy. At the
moment, I am in the extremely delicate process of creating exotic matter in
what used to be one of our cargo holds, using basically a coffee pot, a missile
warhead, and two combots that, despite my best effort at modifications,
absolutely suck at anything but combat. If this goes south, even on Newark
you’ll need to shield your eyes from the explosion. Don’t worry, I am very
confident. Fairly confident. Somewhat confident. Ok, yes, I’m making this shit
up as I go, all right? Give me a freakin' break. And I wouldn’t be too hopeful
about the ultimate fate of that coffee pot, in case you were wondering.
However, carrying on an intelligent conversation with one of you monkeys takes
like one octillionth of my brain power, and half that when I’m speaking with
you, so, what’s up?”

There was the Skippy I knew! “Simply wanted to say,
sincerely, from the bottom of my stomach, thank you for the food delivery.”

“Hmmf. I was going to throw in free breadsticks, but,
you know, what used to be the galley is current highly radioactive, so that was
not an option.”

“We appreciate the thought, Skippy.” Right then, I
couldn’t think of anything else to say.

“Yeah, you’re welcome. No problem.” He sounded like he
felt the conversation was lagging too.

Before it got any more awkward, I said “Well, I’ll let
you go-“

“How did the day go? I’ve been tracking your progress.
Your group is making impressive progress.” It seemed Skippy wanted to keep
talking.

“We didn’t roll or sink an RV today, that’s progress.
Everyone here is sore, not that the SpecOps people will admit it, our muscles
have adjusted to the extra gravity, our joints and tendons are slower catching
up to the extra strain. I stepped in a hole and twisted an ankle yesterday
morning.”

“Did you talk to one of the doctors about it?”

“No, I taped it up myself.”

He sighed. “Joe, you brought two civilians with you,
to have doctors on the team. You’re making them walk all this way, for
nothing?”

“Skippy, they didn’t come with us for something as
simple as someone tweaking an ankle, they’re here to take care of combat
injuries. There’s not much to be done other than taping my ankle, I can’t stop
walking. I don’t want to waste their time, and I don’t want SpecOps people to
think I’m weak.”

“Joe, Joe, Joe. Once in a great while, you have a good
idea, the rest of the time, you are dumb as a rock. Surely you are not the only
monkey in your party with an injury that is being either ignored or attended to
amateurishly?”

“Probably not,” I thought of the various people I saw
moving around stiffly in the mornings.

“And by not seeking the best treatment available, they
risk becoming combat ineffective? As the commander, shouldn’t you be setting an
example?”

Crap. “Skippy, you not only can build a starship out
of moon dust, you know more about monkey, damn it, human psychology than I do.
I should know that. You’re right, I will talk to one of the doctors tonight.”
And soon, before they fell asleep. “That’s enough about me, how are you doing?”

“Good enough. I’ve been monitoring the progress of the
archeology team, they have found a new chamber behind a wall, it was buried in
a rock fall, perhaps at the same time when the main part of the cavern washed
away, and the roof collapsed. Anticipating your question, Colonel Chang is
making certain they are being safe, and not taking unnecessary risks with the
project. The team is very excited, they haven’t told you about it yet, they
have found fragments of bronze plates with what appears to be writing. Colonel
Chang hopes to find more writing samples, buried further down. This new chamber
overall is shallow, whatever is in there will not require a deep excavation.”

“Wow. Writing? That’s awesome.”

“Don’t get your hopes up, Joe, this writing, if that’s
what it is, looks like nothing but scribbles. The only way we will ever be able
to read any of it is if we find more samples, a lot more, with pictographs.”

“We can hope, though. How are things going with you,
up there?”

“Good, good enough. No new setbacks to report. While I
have you, Joe, I’ve been thinking about that favor you asked.”

“Huh? What favor?” He already delivered the pizza.

“The favor about you and me riding off into the sunset
together. Remember? You’re studying up on how to fly ship, so the two of us can
drop the crew off at Earth, after I contact the Collective.”

“Oh, yeah,” I tried to keep the hopefulness out of my voice.

“I thought about it, and I can see why you think it’s
a good idea. I am willing to give it a shot. Unfortunately, my analysis has
determined the scenario is extremely unlikely. As you know, my memory is vague
concerning the Collective, one thing I am certain about is that once I make
contact, I will no longer be able to help you. I might not even be able to
communicate with you in any way. I may, very suddenly, simply be gone.”

“Oh, I hear you, Skippy. Thanks for telling me.”

“Sorry.”

“Skippy, you saved our entire home planet, you have
nothing to apologize about. We all knew the risks when we came out here. I’m
going to,” I yawned, “talk to one of the doctors about my ankle. You have a
good night, Ok?”

“You too, Joe, sleep well.”

 

From the pizza delivery site, we got two solid days of
walking over rolling hills in a steady, cold, dreary rain, with wind blowing
straight into our faces. For meals, we had cold rehydrated sludges. At night,
we collapsed in our tents and sleeping bags, with wet clothes hanging on a line
from the tent roof, dripping on us all night. In the morning, we got up and did
it all again. The novelty of walking across an alien landscape, being the first
humans wherever we went, was wearing off. Every single one of us wanted to get
to the scavenger base, get the attack over with, and get back aboard the 
Flying

Dutchman
. Apparently I had earned a measure of grudging respect from
Smythe, he had taken to walking with me, once he had demonstrated that I could
keep up the pace. And I could, simply by concentrating on putting one foot in
front of the other, hours after hour, day after day. What I could not do very
well, would be to carry a heavy pack all day, in fourteen percent higher
gravity and oxygen equivalent to high altitude on Earth, and then go directly
into combat. The SpecOps people could, they'd trained for it, mentally prepared
for it. At the end of a day, all I wanted to do was gulp down a nutritious
sludge and sleep.

A swirling gust of wind blew fat, cold raindrops right
into my eyes, I wiped my eyes and lowered goggles from atop my head to protect
from the stinging spray. They were fancy high-tech Kristang goggles that
repelled water and didn't fog up inside, even so, they were goggles and wearing
them constantly grew tiresome after a while. "Lovely weather here,
Captain," I said to Smythe, who had put his own goggles on. "Is this
what Scotland is like?"

"No," Smythe looked surprised at my
question. "Scotland is ruggedly beautiful, most times of the year. If you
like the outdoors, it's a wonderful place. It is mostly open country like
this," he swept his arm across the eastern horizon, partly obscured by
rain and low clouds, "and it can be wet," he admitted. "No more
so than the rest of the island, of course."

It took me a moment to realize that by 'the island',
he meant Britain. As an American, I thought of Britain first as a country, not
an island. When I hear the term 'island', I think someplace tropical, with palm
trees and coconuts. And tropical drinks. With little umbrellas. And slices of
pineapple. "That's where you train? The SAS? In Scotland?"

"Scotland? Sometimes. 22 SAS is based in
Hereford, near the Welsh border. Part of our selection training takes place in
the Brecon Beacons of Wales, that area is somewhat similar to this here, the
weather can be very unpredictable, with wind coming off the Irish Sea."

"That's one advantage of Newark, I suppose, the
weather here is predictable, lousy all the time. My hometown in Maine can have
bad weather, at least there the whole area is mostly covered with trees, it
cuts the wind. And you have plenty of fuel for a campfire there."

"Have you ever been to Britain?" He asked, I
shook my head. Smythe went on. "You would like the walking trails in
Britain. In the States, your walking trails are mostly in the woods, I
understand, and you cook your meals over a fire, and sleep in tents. In
Britain, we have walking trails that go from one village to the next, you can
stop at a pub for lunch and dinner, and stay in a guesthouse overnight. It's
very popular, particularly in areas such as the Cotswolds and the Yorkshire
Dales."

"That sure sounds tempting right about now. The
trails go right into a village?"

"Yes. The difference is," Smythe explained,
"most of your trails in the States were set up by governments, on public
land, or on private land where the owner allows access? In Britain, the public
has access across private lands, because for thousands of years, peasants had
right of access to get water, to drive their animals to market or to pasture.
The current landowners can't block the public from walking across their land,
because of the historical right of access. There is a group which organizes
what they call a mass trespass once a year, to walk all the trails in Britain, in
order to maintain the public's right of access."

"Huh." I said. "Man, that would piss
off a lot of people back home."

"America hasn't been around for long, compared to
Britain. Different standards," Smythe concluded. We stopped talking after
that, as the path took us up a long, steep hill, and I couldn't manage more
than grunts.

Even Smythe appeared winded from the climb, we paused
at the summit. "The mountains of Afghanistan are like this. At altitude,
you get to the top of a climb," he said, gasping, "and you want to
catch your breath, but you can't."

I nodded. "I was with the 10th Infantry Division,
the division used to specialize in mountain warfare. Then they sent me to the
jungles of Nigeria. And then to Paradise. The first place I was stationed on Paradise
was so flat, it looked like Kansas."

 

The rain stopped in mid-morning the next day, there
was a strong, constant wind, from the southeast this time, that seemed to
literally blow the clouds away. By early afternoon, the wind dropped to a
pleasant breeze, the sun came out, and the temperature soared high enough that
I stripped down to a long sleeved shirt. People's spirits rose with the
temperature, grim faces replaced by grins, grunts replaced by laughter. Taking
advantage of the break in the weather, I unrolled my damp sleeping bag, turned
it inside out, and tied it to my pack so it could dry. Also, I hung wet socks
from my belt. Everyone did something similar. The sunshine on my face actually
felt warm, even a little hot at times. "Captain," I said to Smythe,
"Skippy tells me this nice weather is going to last until around midnight,
then we're getting rain showers. We're still ahead of schedule, I want a two
hour break for lunch. We'll get the tents set up with flaps open so they can
dry out. And we can string clotheslines from those rocks over there. We will
walk a bit later into the night to make up the time, the ground ahead is pretty
flat and there's no large streams to cross until tomorrow."

To my surprise, Smythe didn't protest the delay. We
got tents and clotheslines set up quickly, and we all took a nice break in the
sunshine, sitting or laying on dry rocks.

"It's not so bad now," I mused to Tanaka and
Zheng. We were sitting on a flat rock with our boots and socks off, rubbing our
feet. The two civilians had held up very well to the rigors of our grueling
hike across Newark. "You know, I wonder what this area was like
before?"

"Before?" Zheng asked.

"Before Newark got pushed out of its original
orbit," I explained. "We're seven hundred kilometers from the equator
here, this must have been, what? Jungle? Desert? Something hot. People, the
natives, they might have come here on vacation."

"I don't think their society had vacations, they
probably didn't have the technology for leisure travel," Tanaka said.

"They had the wheel, that means roads," I
pointed out defensively. "Anyway, you know what I mean. This was a nice
place back then." I looked around at the low, rolling hills, valleys
crisscrossed by streams that sparkled in the sunlight. "Like that hill
over there," I pointed to the south, "it has a nice view of that
lake, it would have had nice breezes for cooling. I wonder if anyone lived up
there?"

Zheng shaded her eyes and looked around. I couldn't
tell whether she was irritated that I'd disturbed the rest she'd earned.
"Most of this landscape was carved by glaciers, when Newark was frozen
solid, before the orbit became elliptical. That lake, even that hill, may not
have existed back then. That will be a big problem for archeologists, much of
the evidence of civilization here; cities, buildings, roads like you said, will
have been scoured away by glaciers. The glaciers, even here, could have been
substantial. The science team is having a debate over whether Newark's surface
froze completely over, or whether there might have been a strip of open ocean
near the equator, during summers." Perhaps because she saw the crestfallen
look on my face, she quickly added "The natives didn't deserve what
happened to this planet. No one does."

"Except maybe the people who did this. What are
the odds Newark is the only planet they threw out of orbit?" I asked
bitterly. My nice sunny good mood was fading. "If I ever find those MFers-"

"Colonel," Zheng said, and tapped my
shoulder gently. "We have a nice day here, a nice afternoon. Let's enjoy
it while it lasts, Ok? Enjoy it for the natives, because they can't? No more
talk about glaciers, I promise."

Not thinking about glaciers for a while was nice.

 

"Uh oh, Joe," Skippy called me while I was
wading across an icy cold stream that was up to my chest. Making the situation
extra special was that, because the water was deep, I had to make two trips
across, to carry all my gear high over my head so it wouldn't get wet.

"Give me a minute, Skippy," I said with
almost a gasp, the cold was taking my breath away. Of course, he called when I
was in the deepest part of the stream. "Kinda busy here right now."

"No immediate rush, Joe," he responded with
a peevish tone.

When I got to dry land, I set my gear down on a rock.
On top of me being soaking wet from wading the stream twice, it was raining, it
was always freakin' raining on Newark. Following the example of the SpecOps
people, I did squats with my rifle over my head, then dropped and did fifty
pushups, to get some warm blood into my chilled muscles. There were only five
people still in the process of crossing the stream, and they didn't need my
help, so I turned my attention to our annoying AI. "What is it,
Skippy?"

"A potential problem, Joe. A few minutes ago, I
overhead the scavenger leaders talking, two of them are taking a group of
laborers out in a truck, to a site where they previously found parts of the
Elder starship buried in the ground. They are loading the truck now."

"Damn it!" This was the last thing we
needed; if the scavengers were in two places, we would need to plan and
coordinate two simultaneous attacks. Depending how far the Kristang drove in
their truck, it might take us a long time, walking night and day, to catch up
with them. Although we were still slightly ahead of schedule, we couldn't delay
an attack for very long, because we couldn't risk the Kristang ship arriving
early and spoiling all of our plans. "This Elder site they're driving to,
how far it is from their base? And do you know if they're planning to stay
there overnight?"

"They are planning to stay overnight, one night
only. This particular site has been picked over pretty thoroughly, Joe, it is
quite desperate of them to go back there, hoping they can dig up something of
value. Without air transport, or their RV, they can no longer travel far from
their base, this limits them to sites within roughly eighty kilometers. The
leaders know that an extended excursion away from the base would make them
vulnerable to attack by their laborers, without air power, the leaders are
feeling very vulnerable. They are absolutely right to be concerned; their
workforce is extra unhappy with their leaders, they've lost both of their
aircraft, and their RV, and they let what they think was an extremely valuable
Elder power tap get away. The Elder artifacts they have recovered so far are
not valuable enough to pay much more than the costs of the expedition, so the
laborers know there will not be much, if any, profits to be shared. The
workforce is ripe for a violent mutiny, Joe."

"That's good for us. Where is this Elder site
they're going to? Can you show me on my zPhone?"

"There is a map on your phone now."

"Huh. Damn, that's almost between us and the
scavenger base." Skippy had put a blinking dot for the Elder site, on top
of the map we used to guide us to the scavenger base. Our route passed within
twenty kilometers of where the scavengers would be staying overnight. "Do
you know the route that truck will be driving?" I asked, and immediately,
a series of red dots appeared on the map, outlining the route the Kristang were
planning to drive. The last forty kilometers of their route overlapped the
route we planned to walk. It made sense, we were now approaching the scavenger
base from the south, and there was only one good route that avoided going up
and down hill all day; we would follow a river valley. The Kristang in their
truck understandably planned to do the same thing. "Skippy, thank you, I
need to think about this. We can watch their truck from the satellite
feeds?"

"You won't normally be able to do that through
the thick clouds you have overhead now, I'll add an icon on your maps, so you
can see where they are. That truck is leaving the base right now. No one aboard
is singing the Kristang version of 'Ninety Nine Bottles of Beer on the Wall',
Joe, these lizards are not a crew of happy campers."

"Got it, thank you."

I went over to Smythe, who was checking that everyone
was ready to move out, move out quickly, before our half-frozen muscles
stiffened up. Explaining the situation, I showed Smythe the map on his own
zPhone.

"Bloody hell," he said, "this
complicates things somewhat, doesn't it?"

"Yes," I agreed.

"Although," he mused, scratching his two-day
growth of beard, "it could be an opportunity."

"That also," I agreed again. "I see
this as more risk than opportunity. For opportunity, you're thinking we can
take out this excursion party of Kristang, steal their truck, ride it into
their base compound, and take them by surprise?"

"Essentially, yes. It is tempting, surely. That
sort of plan depends on our spy in the sky intercepting communications from the
excursion party, then faking signals from them. Can Skippy do that, do you
think, sir?"

"Captain, that would not be a problem for Skippy.
The problem is, the excursion party will be overnighting only seventy
kilometers from the base, that close, they can use simple radio to communicate,
not route the signal through a satellite. When they send signals through one of
their satellites, Skippy can intercept and squelch or alter the signal. He
can't do anything about radio transmissions through the air."

"Bollocks," Smythe declared. "That's
out, then. Unless we take them all out at once, we'd risk cocking it up. The
timing would be too dicey, too many ways it could go pear shaped in a
hurry."

"Uh, yeah," I said, not completely sure of
his British slang, I understood the basics. "How about this; we proceed to
here," I pointed to the spot where the Kristang truck would intercept our
planned walking route on their return journey, "and we wait for them to go
by. Then we can follow their truck. We can't go ahead of them, they'd see our
footprints. And that river valley is the only practical way to get from here to
their base, unless we go all the around these hills, way to the east. I don't
like that option."

"As much as I hate to pass up this opportunity,
sir," Smythe observed sourly, "we're not out here to defeat them in
detail any longer, we already knocked out their air power. Now, we need to hit
them all at once. Rubbish. We'll need to explain to the lads why we're not hitting
them."

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY FIVE

 

The lads weren't the only ones who needed to be
reminded not to shoot, as we watched the Kristang truck slowly lurch by a
couple days later. Smythe, Giraud, I and a few others lay belly down behind
rocks on the reverse slope of a hill, as the Kristang truck drove back down the
river valley below us. It was tempting, almost too tempting a target. With our
Kristang rifles, we could easily have knocked treads off the truck, then picked
off the Kristang one by one. If the Kristang in the truck were the only ones on
the planet, that would have been a viable plan. In reality, we had to watch,
silently, as the truck passed our position. As an extra precaution, none of us
had brought weapons to our observation post. I wasn't worried about someone
losing discipline and firing off a shot, I was worried about a weapon
discharging accidentally. Yeah, it was a small risk, it was also a risk we
didn't need to take. The Kristang in their truck didn't know we were there,
couldn't see us, were not a threat to us.

Their truck reminded me of the US Army's M977 heavy
truck, except instead of eight wheels, the Kristang truck had four flexible
treads like our sunken RV. The cab had a flat front, with large windows,
through my zPhone camera I could clearly see the two Kristang in the cab.
Behind the cab was a canvas sort of cover, two more Kristang were sitting with
their legs hanging over the tailgate, looking very pissed off.

When we first saw the truck, rolling along beside the
river, it was moving fairly quickly over flat ground. Now, right below us, the
river made a series of lazy bends, and the truck had to slow down to splash
across streams. Skippy told us that truck didn't have swim pontoons, it
couldn't float like the RV had, it was just a truck with fancy treads. On a
planet crisscrossed with rivers swollen with snow and glacial melt, a vehicle
that couldn't cross a significant body of water was severely limited in where
it could go. That explained why the Kristang had chosen to go out to an Elder
crash site they had already explored; there weren't many places they could go,
now that we had destroyed their aircraft and RV.

The truck was driving back over its own muddy tracks,
returning to the base the same way it had come out. In several places along the
river, there was only one place to go, without driving through water deep
enough to submerge it completely. It went through a stream and I found myself
holding my breath, the truck was submerged almost up to its hood, and the two
Kristang in the back were now standing up, keeping their feet out of the icy
water. Even from where we were hiding, I could faintly hear the truck's motors
whining. One of the left treads spun freely, then caught, and the truck waddled
up the other side of the stream. The truck stopped, the left door opened, and a
Kristang got out to inspect the front left tread. Then the other Kristang in
the front got out, and the two of them talked, while pointing at the tread. One
of the laborers in the back poked his head around the side, and the first
Kristang pulled out a pistol and gestured for the laborer to get back in the
truck. The two in the front kicked the tread, and clods of mud fell out. After
peering at the tread a minute and discussing something, the two leaders got
back in the cab, and the truck lurched back into motion.

After a while, watching the truck drive on became
dull, when it became clear the Kristang had no idea we were there, and only
wanted to get back to their base. My attention wandered away from the truck to
Captain Smythe, I wondered how many times, in how many Godforsaken places,
Smythe had done this exact same thing; lain in wait, observing an enemy,
deciding when and how to strike.  

Within ten minutes, the truck went out of sight around
a bend in the river.

"Skippy said there are six of them in the
truck," Smythe said quietly, "the most we could have taken out at one
time were three. No go, it wouldn't have worked anyway."

"And we couldn't have walked all the way to where
they camped overnight, in time to hit them when they were sleeping," I
added. "We stick with the original plan, let that truck drive back to
their base. Give it twenty minutes to get well ahead of us, then we'll go down
there and follow it. We should be within striking distance of their base tonight."

 

The big unknown in my plan to assault the scavengers'
base was whether we could get close enough to launch a surprise attack, or
whether the Kristang would see us coming far away and prepare their defenses.
If the Kristang had made even a minimal effort at external site security, such
as scattering a few cameras around the base perimeter, they could have ruined
all our plans. A couple cheap cameras were a simple precaution, that could have
forced us to fight a pitched battle against Kristang with equivalent
technology, with them in prepared positions. While we marched toward the base,
Smythe and I discussed how to approach the base from multiple directions, using
one group as a decoy, before the main assault team swept in from another
direction. Neither of us liked the odds of that plan succeeding.

To my surprise and delight, back when I was dreaming
up the overall plan against the scavengers, Skippy confirmed the scavengers had
made zero effort at protecting their base from external threats, the leaders'
only concern was security inside their base. They only threat they foresaw was
from their own forced laborers; the base inside the fence was riddled with
cameras and other sensors, and doors were locked with codes that only three of
the leaders had access to. On an uninhabited planet, a planet without land
animals larger than a tiny insect, the leaders must have figured cameras
outside the base were not necessary. They were wrong.

After the scavengers saw from Skippy's faked satellite
data, that they weren't alone on the planet, that other Kristang had been
there, had even shot down their air power, you would think the scavengers
leaders would have done something, taken some steps to prevent hostile forces
from sneaking up on their base. They did absolutely nothing. After seeing the
fake satellite of the other Kristang having flown up into orbit, and then
jumping away, the scavenger leaders once again thought they were safe. Stupid
civilians.

That was great news for us. The day before we were
scheduled to reach the base, I asked Skippy to confirm there were no cameras,
motion detectors, or other sensors outside the base. He replied that, as far as
he could tell, and he was tapping into all their communications, there were no
sensors of any kind outside the fence.

As far as he could tell.

That was the problem. While we could plan for the
best, we had to account for the worst.

 

It was a judgment call, and as the commander, I had to
make it. If there were in fact no cameras or sensors outside the fence line, we
could wait until daylight to attack, because my plan relied on the Kristang
being awake. If there were sensors of any kind outside the fence line, then it
would be best for us to approach the base and launch the attack at night, to
catch the Kristang as off guard as possible. If I assumed there were no sensors
and I was wrong, our daylight assault could get difficult very quickly. But if
I assumed there were sensors and we launched a night assault, instead of
sticking to my original plan, I would needlessly be putting human lives at
risk.

What I decided on was a compromise. We approached the
base from two directions, at night. One team of six people came in from the
east, as a decoy force. Once they were within half a kilometer, the rest of us,
including an Alpha team of two men in armor suits, ran toward the base from the
west. If we were detected, the base would sound an alarm and Skippy would tell
us right away. At that point, we were committed to hit the base as fast and
hard as we could, there was no going back, nothing to go back to.

If our night approach was not detected, and we got to
the ridge two hundred meters west of the base, we would hide behind the ridge
until daylight, as implement my original plan. To my original plan, I added a
silent prayer before we crossed the start line. We each took with us weapons,
water, a sludge, and first aid kits. Our two actual qualified doctors remained
at the start line with the rest of our equipment, a kilometer from the base,
under a bluff. Part of my prayer was that we wouldn't need the doctors. The
weather was cold but clear that night, our local TV weatherbabe Skippy said
skies would remain mostly clear until the following afternoon, I took that as a
good omen. Unfortunately, I mentioned my thought of omens out loud while Skippy
was listening, and was subjected to a scathing lecture about ignorant,
superstitious monkeys. It's a good thing he didn't know I was also wearing my
lucky underwear.

Yeah, lucky underwear is a thing.

Skippy's intel was right. No alarm was sounded, we got
to our initial hold position two hundred meters from the base, spread out to
give good coverage, and we lay prone on the ground behind a ridge that was
maybe five meters tall at its highest point. Just enough to give us cover. We
set up zPhones sticking just above the ridge as cameras, and monitored the view
from our own zPhones. We waited throughout the night, silently, communicating
by hand signals. As dawn approached, lights came on inside the scavenger base,
and Skippy told us the Kristang were engaged in mundane tasks such as eating
breakfast, showering, and arguing with each other. In two hours, two of the
leaders planned to go out to the Elder crash site with six laborers, to resume
digging. Once they were outside the base, there was a strong chance they would
see us, so I launched Phase Three of the plan.

 

Phases One and Two of my plan relied merely on the
Kristang's strong desire to possess an Elder power tap, and Skippy's ability to
control the data feed through their satellites. Phases One and Two did not require
the Kristang to do anything specifically Kristang-like in nature; any species
would want an Elder power tap. Perhaps the fact that the scavengers were
especially eager to grab it as soon as possible, before the starship they were
expecting could steal it and jump away, was a particularly Kristang
characteristic, but no species would leave such a valuable object laying
exposed on the ground for long. Of course they would send an aircraft to pick
it up. And of course, after the aircraft crashed, they would send their
remaining air power to get the power tap. Humans would have flown a dropship to
the crash site, out of concern for any survivors of the crash, or at least to
investigate the cause of the crash; the Kristang likely wouldn't have cared
about any of that. Probably they'd consider such actions a sign of weakness.

No matter what their motivations, the Kristang had
fallen for our traps, Phases One and Two, that wiped out their air power
advantage, and reduced the Kristang we potentially had to fight by eleven. I'd
been hoping one, or both, of the air sorties the scavengers sent out would
contain at least one powered armor suit, to reduce the number of those we had
to face. Sending an armored suit seemed to me to be a blindingly obvious part
of any plan to pick up a priceless Elder artifact; someone in armor could more
quickly and easily reach the site in the rough terrain of the canyon lands.
Someone in armor could more easily, and more important, safely, bring the artifact
back to the aircraft. Crossing freezing cold, fast running streams, walking
over broken rocks and smooth, wet, slippery muds, sliding through mud, would
all be safer in a powered armor suit that had gyroscopes and
computer-controlled stabilizers.

Unfortunately, although the Kristang would probably
have agreed with me about the wisdom and practicality of sending armor to pick
up the Elder power tap, they had a uniquely Kristang factor to consider: they
couldn't trust their forced labor with powered armor. Even one of the six
high-ranking Kristang, who had armor, wouldn't risk being away from the base,
surrounded by forced labor. In the close confines of an aircraft, or hemmed in
by canyon walls, a Kristang in armor would lose much of the advantage of wearing
armor, and be vulnerable to a concentrated, planned attack. The result, which
sucked for us humans, was no armor was in either of the aircraft. That meant
the scavengers, at their base, had four functional sets of armor that we would
have to deal with. Too many Kristang, four of whom would have armor, against
our human SpecOps team, and we had only two sets of Kristang armor with us.

Phase Three of my plan was to deal with the
scavengers' numerical and armor advantage, and the advantage they had of being
in defensive positions. I had thought long and hard about how we could defeat
the scavengers, that's a nice way of saying we needed to kill them, all of
them. Because I couldn't think of any way for to kill them, given their
advantages of numbers, technology and being on the defensive, I decided the
only solution was for us to outsource the job.

We would get the Kristang to kill each other. That's
why my plan relied on them being awake and up before we launched Phase Three.

I contacted Skippy. "Hey, Skippy, you
there?"

"Of course. How's your back feeling, Joe?"

"Better" I admitted, "now that my pack
is lighter." My pack was lighter, because I was no longer carrying a
section of powered armor, and because I'd eaten most of the food we started out
with. Dehydrated sludges didn't weigh much, even in fourteen percent higher
gravity. The armored suits were now assembled and ready for use in combat. My
hope, if my plan worked, was we wouldn't need our Alpha team with two sets of
armor for a while yet. "You ready for Phase Three?"

"More than ready! I'm eager to see if this works.
It will be an interesting experiment in Kristang social dynamics."

"Uh huh, sure thing," I agreed.
"Activate Phase Three whenever you can."

"Done. If you're right, we'll know pretty quickly."

"Yup, that's what I hope. Let me know soon as
anything changes over there."

Phase Three was simple; it didn't involve any decoys,
any manipulation of satellite data, any shooting down aircraft, or any
elaborate cover-ups of human involvement. The essence of Phase Three was that
the truth shall set you free. Only, in this case, the truth was being given to
the Kristang forced laborers, and the 'you' really being set free was the human
assault force. Free, hopefully, from having to engage in a protracted firefight
with the Kristang.

The 'truth' part of Phase Three was, in fact, truth.
What Skippy did was grant the forced laborers access to secure communications
of the six Kristang leaders, not a hundred percent exactly what the leaders
said to each other, Skippy spiced things up a bit to get the laborers'
attention quickly. Skippy made the breakdown in communications security seem
like a system glitch, and it took the laborers a while to notice, even longer
to take advantage of their surprise access. The data they had access to was, in
essence, all truth; the food supply at the base was dwindling, and the six
leaders planned to either kill or abandon their labor force on Newark when the
starship arrived. While maybe the laborers suspected that was going to happen
anyway, getting smacked in the face with it certainly made them hopping mad.
Anger is a useless emotion unless it can be channeled into action, and that was
where the other data Skippy gave them access to came into play. He gave them
access to the base physical security systems, like the doors that kept the
laborers locked in when they weren't working. And the doors in the entire base,
including the high security area where the six leaders lived. And, most
especially, the locks to the armory building, where the leaders kept almost all
the weapons, and three of the four working armored suits.

Sentient beings, whether they are human, Ruhar,
Kristang or any other species in the Milky Way galaxy, tend to avoid risk, and
tend to hesitate when presented with new information, particularly when that
new information makes them question things they previously believed.
Fortunately, most groups of sentient beings have one or two members who do not
hesitate, who take decisive action, and those dynamic individuals usually bring
the group with them. In the case of the laborers, there were three Kristang who
didn't hesitate, who boldly and angrily took action. These three Kristang were
younger sons, who were not technically prisoners or slaves, they were younger
sons of impoverished subclan families, who had volunteered to join the
scavenger expedition in a desperate attempt to improve the fortunes of their
families back home. These three felt especially betrayed that their leaders
planned to abandon them on Newark with the criminals and slaves who made up
most of the work force. The first thing the three did, was verify the access
codes truly could open the door that kept them trapped in their defacto prison.
When that door opened with a metallic click, they moved out immediately. The
laborers knew their leaders were watching them, knew the leaders had seen the
laborers becoming agitated and angrily arguing amongst themselves, and knew the
leaders would be notified as soon as the door was unlocked without the leaders'
authorization. So, as soon as that door opened, the three bold laborers moved
quickly, and the others followed.

The others followed, because they knew their leaders
would punish all the laborers equally for attempted rebellion, knew they faced
death whether they actively participated in the mutiny or not. It was all or
nothing, and such clarity is a great motivator. The entire group of laborers
raced through the camp toward the armory, while the six leaders hesitated,
stunned, for crucial seconds.

When the six leaders finally faced their shocking new
reality and roused themselves to action, the first thing they did was argue
amongst each other. The primary leader, the one who had funded the scavenger
expedition, knew that only he and two others had codes to unlock the armory
door, yet he could see on the security system display that the laborers were
confidently racing toward the armory building, and had already unlocked the
gate to the electric fence that surrounded the armory. The primary leader
instantly drew only one conclusion from what he was seeing; one of the other
two Kristang with the codes had given them to the laborers, in an attempt to
take over the base and steal the precious Elder artifacts for himself.
Accordingly, the primary leader took out of its holster the pistol he
constantly kept on his belt, and shot the other two. Now there were four
leaders left. And one armor suit available, in the primary leader's cabin, the
other three functioning sets of armor were in the armory building. After killing
two of his fellows, the primary leader, with his pistol pointed at the three
others, backed into his personal cabin and locked himself in. He came out four
minutes later, in an armor suit, and led his three fellows toward the armory.
On the video screen, the leaders could see the laborers had reached the armory
and had already unlocked the outer door. A minute later, as the leaders reached
the fence that surrounded the armory, shots rang out from both sides.

It was a chaotic, bloody mess, a pure fire fight
without any planning, tactics or coordination. The primary leader charged
directly toward the back door the armory building, he must have known that if
the laborers got the other suits on, it was game over. The other three leaders
poured fire into the open doorway of the armory, cutting down laborers as they
came out, firing blindly. The laborers numbers began to tell, as one of the
leaders went down, and the other two pulled back around the corner of a
building for cover. Three times Smythe reminded the team not to fire,
regardless how tempting the target was, and to keep down and out of sight. Our
Alpha team, the two men in suits, were particularly itching to get into the
fight. Keeping our heads down was a good idea not only so the Kristang didn't
see us, but also because there were explosive-tipped rounds flying thick
through the air all around the base. The leaders had a few heavier weapons, and
explosions sent shrapnel everywhere, the laborers responded with improvised
explosives they'd taken from the armory.

When the fighting ended, there were only three
Kristang left alive on the planet. Two leaders, wearing armor and hunkered down
in their own building, likely still in shock and trying to decide what to do.
One laborer, holed up in the armory building. Holed up, with the precious stash
of Elder artifacts, and a whole lot of explosives. Explosives he threatened to
detonate, if the leaders didn't take off their armor suits, come into the open,
and negotiate how to split the artifacts and assure the laborer he would be
getting safely off the planet. According to Skippy, he actually did have a
chance to survive; though Kristang society would not be happy about him
participating in a violent mutiny, they would respect his courage, and more
important, his success. The Kristang rewarded success in combat, I knew that
from very personal experience. Unfortunately for him, we knew from Skippy
listening in on the two leaders' conversations that they planned to betray and
kill the laborer.

We needed to deal with the three remaining Kristang.
To put it simply, we needed to kill them quickly. And with minimal risk to
ourselves. By 'ourselves', I mean the SpecOps troops, not me. I didn't even
have a weapon, what I had carried across the surface of Newark was ammo and
part of an armor suit. Yes, I had experience in combat, I'd even killed
Kristang. With the SpecOps teams, I could only get in their way. Each team of
four or six had trained extensively with each other, knew their tactics, knew
each other, knew their roles, knew what every other member of the team would do
in a situation. Each teams had trained with other teams, and each soldier had cross
trained with other teams; Rangers had taken a place on the Chinese team,
Chinese with the SAS, French paratroopers with their Indian counterparts.
Although I had participated in some of their training aboard, and outside, the 
Dutchman
,
I wasn't qualified to go into combat with them. "What do you think?"
I asked Smythe.

"It would help if we could draw those two leaders
out of cover," Smythe mused, "going to be a hell of a fire fight, if
we have to go in there after them. Two armored suits against two armored suits,
and they're bigger, faster and stronger than humans. They've been using armor
probably since they were little, we still don't have enough real experience for
me to be confident of our chances in this one. That bugger with the explosives
is the real problem, that's where we could use our suits; go in high speed and
hit him before he can react. We can't do that if we need our suits to engage
those two leaders. Somehow, we need to make that laborer disarm those
explosives, or distract him even a short time, make him hesitate." He
looked up at me. "You have another magic trick up your sleeve, sir?"

"I wish I did," I said, shaking my head
slowly. Magic is what we needed right then. The SpecOps people were committed
and brave, willing to go in and accomplish the mission, regardless of the cost
to themselves. Willing to go in, if I ordered them to. An order I didn't want to
give. It wouldn't be right for me to send them into a straight, brutal fire
fight simply because their commander couldn't think of a better tactical
solution to the problem. Yet, we'd come this far, we couldn't simply give up
now. A magic trick would be a great thing to have right then. All magic is
based on deception-

I sucked in a sharp breath. "Captain Smythe, I
may have an idea. Skippy, you listening?"

"I'm here," Skippy acknowledged.

With an attentive audience, I explained my plan.

Smythe grinned appreciatively. "Sir, I think
Skippy is right, you are an evil genius."

I had to laugh at that, despite the seriousness of the
situation. "This will work?" The SpecOps people were the experts on
what they could accomplish, and not.

"Oh, yes. We'll handle it from here, sir,"
Smythe said and turned to sketch out an attack plan in the mud.

 

Phase Three Bravo, that I'd dreamed up on the spot,
began by Skippy transmitting over the radio, in the clear, a message supposedly
from the Kristang who had shot down the Luzzard and the dropship, and stolen
the Elder power tap. Pretending to be one of those Kristang, from the Red Stone
clan, Skippy made a plea to the laborer with the explosives, explaining the Red
Stone clan's ship had never truly jumped away, it had been hiding behind a
stealth field in orbit the whole time. The Red Stone clan had given the
security access codes to the laborers, and if the one remaining Kristang
laborer deactivated the explosives and joined the Red Stone, he could split the
reward. Our two men in armored suits stepped over the ridge into clear view,
and began running toward the storehouse where the laborer was holed up with the
Elder AI, the precious comm node, and a pile of explosives.

Three Bravo worked, because the three remaining
Kristang heard Kristang talking to them, and saw two unfamiliar Kristang
armored suits pop up and run toward the base. The scavengers were alone on
Newark, as far as they knew. They believed our story about the Red Stone clan
instantly, because that was the only possible explanation, based on what the
scavengers knew. They had no reason to think the two Kristang armored suits
running toward the base contained anyone other than Kristang from the Red Stone
clan, to think anything else right then would be absurd.

Our deception worked as intended, the two leaders in
armor screeched angrily over the radio and stepped out from behind cover to
race toward the armory, intending to get there before the two Red Stone clan in
armor suits could. From where they were, the two leaders couldn't get a clear
shot at our two armored warriors; several buildings were between the two pairs
of combatants, and our men weaved as they ran, using low spots in the hill
slope to keep out of plain sight. The SpecOps teams had practiced this broken
field running in suits many times. Skippy's opinion was that, because of the
size gap between humans and Kristang, and the different running gaits of the
two species, a human wearing armor would look strange to a Kristang, and any
Kristang would notice something wrong fairly quickly. With our two men running
down the hill slope, leaping from cover to cover, they weren't clearly visible
long enough for the Kristang to tell those armored suits didn't contain
Kristang. Or so we hoped.

The two scavenger leaders were not making any attempt
to keep to cover, racing at the full amazing speed their suits could manage.
They were fast, almost too fast. Our entire assault team, except the Alpha team
of two men in armor, and one rifleman waiting for a clear shot at the laborer,
had our Kristang rifles sighted in on the scavenger leaders, and even with
advanced knowledge of how fast beings in suits could run, and the super
technology of Kristang adaptive gunsights, most of our first volley of shots
missed. Enough shots did hit the two scavenger leaders that they went down
quickly, stumbling and falling, skidding across the ground. Now alert to the
danger, they separated and attempted to get behind cover, they were too late.
Massed fire, with eight to ten rifles concentrating on each set of armor,
knocked them back down again, and our explosive-tipped armor-penetrating rounds
began to bite through the tough armor.

"Cease fire! Cease fire!" Skippy shouted
over the private channel. "Stop shooting, those two are dead. You're wasting
ammo."

Before I had to say anything, we all stopping shooting
at the two now-inert Kristang leaders. Our two men in armor didn't hesitate,
they kept running toward the armory building. This was the moment of maximum
danger; if that lizard in the armory decided he had nothing to lose, and
detonated the explosives, we could lose our two men in suits, the comm node,
and the AI. I was about to order the two men in suits to halt, so we could try
talking to the remaining Kristang, but the sharp crack of a rifle interrupted
me. The sniper we had assigned to cover the armory had not lost focus for a
second, despite the gunfire ringing out all around him. The massed fire had
attracted the attention of the laborer in the armory, curiosity, or maybe the
fear of not knowing what is going on, overcame his better judgment, and he
popped his head up for a quick look.

Not quick enough. Our sniper, from the Chinese team,
drilled him once in the head with an explosive-tipped round, and that was the
end of it. Fortunately, the laborer hadn't rigged up any kind of dead-man
switch on the explosives, nothing happened. "You certain you got
him?" I asked the sniper.

"Yes, sir," he said, and transmitted his gun
scope camera image to my zPhone. 

There was no question about it, that lizard's head had
exploded like, well, I'll spare you the unpleasant details. What mattered was,
that lizard wasn't going to be a problem for anyone, ever again. "Alpha
team," I ordered the two men in suits, "approach with caution. Everyone
else, hold position."

We waited while the Alpha team in their armor
carefully leapfrogged toward the armory. This was a situation where I wish we
had the full suite of Kristang infantry fighting gear, especially recon drones.
We could have launched a drone into the armory, without risking anyone's life,
to get us all the intel we needed. As it was, with only two armored suits and
no recon gear, we made do with what we had. One, then both, of the Alpha team
disappeared inside the large door of the armory, then one of them came outside
and waved to me. "All clear, sir, no booby traps. He would have had to
manually set off the explosives, looks like he was mostly bluffing."

"Skippy?" I inquired. "What do you
think?"

"I concur, all is clear. None of the Kristang are
alive."

"Damn," I breathed a sigh of relief,
"we did it. We actually did it."

Smythe safed his weapon, stood up, and crisply saluted
me. "Sir, we destroyed their air power, and neutralized all of them,
without a single shot being fired in our direction. This is the most successful
operation I've ever been involved in. That was a hell of a plan, sir."

"So far, Captain. So far." We still needed
to hide from the Kristang ship that would arrive before the 
Dutchman
 was
ready, then later get off the planet safely. "Let's secure Skippy's magic
radio and the AI, and then I'll think about celebrating somewhat."

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY SIX

 

The Elder gear we wanted was in a pile on the floor of
the armory, underneath a dead lizard. I ordered the Alpha team to remove the
dead Kristang, as the seven foot tall body was too heavy for me to move by
myself. It took a few minutes of sorting through the pile to find the two
things Skippy sought; the AI and the comm node. The comm node I found first, it
was in a box, surrounded by padding; the Kristang must have recognized it as
something at least semi valuable. "Ok, we have the comm node-"

"No!" Skippy interrupted me. "The AI,
find the AI."

"All right, all right," I assured him.
"Looking for it now." Setting aside the comm node, the magic radio we
had come all the way out here to find, I continued sorting through the pile,
until I reached the bottom. There was no AI. "It's not here."

"What?" Skippy's voice carried a touch of
panic. "It has to be there!"

"Hold on, Skippy, don't worry yet. I only looked
through the Elder gear that guy had with the explosives. He probably didn't
have time to take all the Elder artifacts out of where they are storing them.
There's a bunch of lockers and containers here, we'll find it."

And we did find it, forty minutes later. We tore the
armory apart, looked in every container, every locker, and we found all kinds
of Elder artifacts, mostly damaged, all worthless according to Skippy. The AI
wasn't anywhere. "Crap!" I swore in frustration. "We'll have to
search every nook and cranny of this entire base, then. Captain Smythe, split
up the team-"

Williams interrupted me. "Got it! Found it, sir,
I think. Is this it?" He held up an object identical to Skippy, except
this one had some green sticky substance on one side.

"Yes!" I exulted. "Where did you find
it?"

"In the trash can, sir," Williams answered.

"The trash can?!" Skippy shouted. "Damn
it! If those lizards weren't already dead, I'd kill them for that."

"Skippy, they didn't know what they had. The
lizards and the hamsters kept you on a dusty shelf, they didn't know how
valuable you are either." I took the AI from Williams and carefully rubbed
the green goo off with a rag, it came off easily, nothing stuck to that shiny
chrome surface. "Ok, what's next?"

"Touch your phone to the surface, it needs to be
in direct contact."

"That's all?" I asked skeptically.

"Yes, we're making do with what we have here.
I'll take it from there. Good, hold it right there, right there. Huh," he
said, "let me try it again. Huh."

"Anything?"

"No, no, nothing. Trying it again. Damn it."

"Skippy?" He didn't answer me. I had been
touching the top of my zPhone to the top of the AI. Now, I set the zPhone down
on a table, and put the AI on it. It couldn't be touching any more firmly.
"Hey, Skippy," I said softly, "do you want to try it again?
Skippy?"

"I did already," he said, and he didn't even
bother faking a sigh.

"Nothing? I'm sorry, Skippy." Damn I felt
just awful for him. Essentially alone in the universe, he thought he had found
one of this own kind, but it was inert. "Hey, listen, we'll bring the AI
up to the 
Dutchman
 with us, and you can try it again there."

"Why? It's dead, Joe, there's nothing in that
canister. There is no use bringing it to me."

"You know this because you have contacted
apparently inert AIs before?"

"No. Duh. This has never happened before, as far
as I know."

"Then you don't know that it won't work,
right?"

He sighed, and the fact that he made the effort to do
that for my benefit was encouraging. We didn't need a depressed AI working on
the delicate task of repairing the ship. "You're right," he said
glumly. "Sure, what the hell, I'll try that."

"I'm sorry, Skippy, I really am."

"Yeah, I know. Ah, time heals all wounds, right?
It's only been a minute for you, but in Skippy time, that happened like a year
ago, I've gotten over my initial disappointment," he said more cheerfully.
"You're right! Yeah, maybe the AI needs to be within my true range, using
your phone only allows me to work within this spacetime. Yeah! Hey, that's it.
Damn it, I'll have to wait until I can send a dropship down to get it. Ok,
let's try the comm node now."

"No," I said flatly.

"No?" Skippy said, surprised. "Oh, shit,
is it damaged? You told me in was in a nice padded box, you jerk!"

"It's not damaged, Skippy, I don't want you
screwing with it, until we're back aboard the Dutchman. Think about what might
happen if this comm node works, and you contact the Collective right here? Like
you told me, you might go Poof and disappear. And then we monkeys would be
stuck down here, with repairs to the 
Dutchman
 incomplete, and us with no
way to get back to the ship anyway." I caught Smythe's eye, and he nodded
approval. None of us wanted to risk Skippy disappearing before we were ready to
leave Newark behind. "So, the answer is no, you're not going to attempt to
use the comm node yet, I'm keeping it securely in the box. If you want to try
using it, then you finish fixing up the ship, get it here, and send down
dropships to pick us up."

"Fine," he huffed. "I guess that's
fair. To tell you the truth, as much as I do want to contact the Collective, I
want to see if I really can fix this ship first. That would be something to
brag about, huh?"

"If? You mean 'when'," I said fearfully.
"
When
 you fix the ship, right?"

"Oh, yeah, sure. No problemo, Joe. Uh huh, right.
I mean when I fix the ship. Things are going well up here, Joe, no major
disasters within the last, oh, six hours, almost. Nothing I can't handle."

"Great." I had to take him at his word, there
wasn't an alternative. "Is there anything else we can do here,
Skippy?" I asked, panning my zPhone camera over the array of Elder
artifacts laying on the floor, "Bring any of this other stuff with
us?"

"None of it is useful to us," Skippy said,
"although we need to do something with it anyway, if that Kristang ship
gets here and detects a whole bunch of Elder gear still in the vicinity of the
scavenger base, that will blow our cover story of another Kristang clan coming
here and ripping off the scavengers. We can't count entirely on our missile
getting all of it."

"Uh, huh, got it," I said with dismay. Some
of the Elder gear was heavy, or bulky, or both. Bringing all of it with us
would be a substantial burden, the hillside caverns where I planned for us to
hole up were seventy kilometers away. So was most of our food supply.
"This is a lot of stuff to carry."

"Sir?' Gomez spoke up. "This guy here,"
he nudged the dead laborer with his boot, "had the place ready to blow if
we tried to capture him. Maybe our cover story could be the scavengers here
blew up most of the Elder gear, to keep the Red Stone clan from taking
it?"

I looked at him in surprise.

Smythe nodded agreement. "That would save us from
having to haul all this kit a long way, sir, we could take some of it with
us."

Damn, that was a good plan, I should have thought of
it. "Skippy? Does that sound good to you?"

"Yeah, sure, what the hell," he answered
listlessly. "Sorry, Joe, I'm very disappointed about the AI, that's all.
Yes, that plan makes sense. Pile the explosives around most of it, set a timer,
and blow it. That will be convincing. If the ship scans the area, they'll see
plenty of expended Kristang cartridges from the firefight. The missile is on
its way, that will cover up any contradictory evidence."

"Great. Good thinking," I addressed Gomez
and Smythe. The missile, which Skippy had launched on its long journey across
the star system while we were still driving the RV across Newark, had been
taking a slow orbital approach to Newark. Now that we had cleared the scavenger
base of Kristang, and retrieved the useless Elder gear, the missile only needed
our strike team to clear the area, before it accelerated in and impacted the
center of the base. The missile was one of Skippy's handmade units, not one of
our precious Thuranin ship-killers with the fancy atomic compression warheads.
Skippy's homebrew warhead was powerful enough to burrow into the soil of
Newark, and create a crater larger than the scavenger base perimeter, it also
would leave trace signature elements of a typical Kristang warhead blast. That
missile was Phase Four of my plan, covering up evidence that the base had been
raided by a party traveling overland. Data that Skippy would plant in the two
Kristang satellites would show a Kristang ship unstealthing in orbit, a pair of
dropships strafing the scavenger base, then landing and a firefight at the
base. The armory would blow up, with most of the Elder gear, then the dropships
would take off, and the ship would fire a missile at the base, before
recovering its dropships and jumping away. I'm sure Skippy would make the whole
event look thoroughly convincing in the satellite data banks. When the Kristang
ship arrived to pick up the scavenger leaders, it would find a muddy crater
where the base had been, and a familiar story of the scavengers being raided by
a rival clan. There would, I fervently hoped, be absolutely no reason for that
ship to have any curiosity about the rest of the planet, no reason to actively
scan the surface. No reason to initiate a scan that might find RV tracks
leading toward the base, a scan that might detect an RV sunk in a river. No
reason to scan the area around the two crashed scavenger aircraft, a scan that
very likely would detect signs of recent habitation. Signs of the area being
inhabited by, of all unlikely things, humans.

If the Kristang ship hung around Newark a moment
longer than it needed to, I hoped that all it would send a dropship down to the
Elder crash site, to see if the scavengers had missed anything useful. That
would keep the Kristang busy, until they got bored and went away. No humans had
been to the crash site, so the new group of Kristang wouldn't find any trace of
us there. "I'll take the b-" I almost said 'beer can', "the AI
and the comm node." Maybe Skippy could find something useful to do with
them later, and it didn't feel right leaving the dead AI where it was.
"The rest of it, we cover with explosives, and set a timer." I looked
up to the north, where dark clouds were gathering, and a chill wind was
beginning to stir. "Let's get moving, we have a lot of ground to cover
before nightfall."

 

When the Kristang ship arrived, I was outside the cave
getting much-appreciated fresh air in the early morning hours, stretching my
legs and taking in a quick change of scenery. During daylight hours, we kept to
our three cramped caverns, a big treat for us was bunking in a different cavern
for a few days, being able to see relatively new faces. We got notice of the
ship's arrival almost simultaneously from our zPhone detecting the gamma ray
burst, and from Skippy calling us. "That Kristang ship is here, Joe, you
best get under cover."

"Roger that," I replied, and didn't need to
say anything else, as we all double-timed back to our respective caverns. No running,
this was a disciplined group and no one needed to be scolded for risking a
twisted ankle or broken leg in the semi-darkness. "ETA?"

"It jumped in far away from the planet, far even
for a Kristang ship, their jump drive appears to be in poor condition. My guess
is they won't enter a stable orbit for another day, maybe more. They're pinging
the scavenger camp, and of course getting no reply. They also just requested a
download from the satellites, I'm giving them everything we want them to see."

"Great. I'll check in with you every six hours,
you contact me if anything happens that I need to know about."

"Affirmative. 
Dutchman
 out."

 

"Hey, Colonel Joe," Skippy called me,
startling me. I'd been sitting on a rock near the entrance of the cavern,
watching a cold rain splatter down outside, slowly drinking a cold
chocolate-banana sludge. There wasn't much else to do, and I'd slept plenty
already, maybe too much. 

"What's up, Skippy?"

"Uh, we gots a tiny problemo."

"Oh, like what?" I snapped my fingers to get
people's attention, and around me, I could see people stirring and putting on
their zPhone earpieces so they could listen in.

"Two pieces of news, one bad, one merely FYI. The
FYI part is that ship is sending a dropship down to check out the Elder crash
site, in case the scavengers missed something. For now, they're not going to
bother inspecting what's left of the scavenger base, and they're not interested
in the crash sites near our main encampment, where we shot down those two
scavenger aircraft. They completely bought the story I fed them in the fake
satellite data. True to Kristang, they 're not even pissed about being raided
and having all the scavengers killed, thy are only pissed that some other clan
stole the Elder artifacts."

"That is actually good news so far, Skippy.
What's the bad news?"

"More like extremely annoying news, but it could
turn out to be devastatingly bad, we'll have to wait and see. From internal
ship communications, leaking through their hull because of a shockingly, and I do
mean I am truly, actually shocked this time, Joe, I'm not merely doing the old
joke where I only pretend to be shocked, you know what I mean? You say you're
shocked, but you actually mean the opposite? The most famous usage of that
phrase, of course, was by Claude Raines in the movie Casablanca, although that
line is strangely misquoted very often. The correct-"

"Skippy! The point, please. Here's another good
quote for you to remember: brevity is the soul of wit."

"And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes,
I will be brief," Skippy finished the quote for me. "Man, I try to
smack some culture down on you-"

"And we ignorant monkeys greatly appreciate it,
Skippy, at the appropriate time, Ok?"

"Fine," he said with a huff. "As I was
saying, before, I guess before I rudely interrupted my own train of thought,
huh, I see your point now, Joe. Damn, my mind wanders sometimes. I was saying,
the communications security aboard that ship is shockingly bad, their cabling
must be completely worn out, more of the data signal leaks out than gets to its
destination. It is so bad, that even if they had a functioning stealth field,
which they do not, I'd be able to listen in. You monkeys are a young, impatient
species, so without further embellishment, here's the news: the Thuranin star
carrier that dropped off this ship at the edge of the star system will not
return for another four and a half months, that's 'meh' level accuracy for you.
That means the Kristang ship will be here for four months, at least. During
those four and a half months, the Kristang on that ship may become bored, and
start poking around, scanning, and looking into things better left alone. They
might discover the human presence on Newark."

"Damn it!" I looked around and met people's
eyes, they were all indicating alarm. "That isn't the only problem,
Skippy, we only have three months of food with us here." My group may be
able to stretch out our supply of dehydrated sludges to three and a half
months, possibly another week under extreme conditions, we were already on
rather lean rations as it was. The main group, back at the caverns near the
cathedral complex, had more food, they might make it to four months. None of us
were going to survive four and a half months.

"That is a problem, and with that ship in orbit,
I can't send another food delivery. The 
Dutchman's
 supply of sludges is
almost exhausted anyway, and I can't make more until the ship is up and running
again. Joe, this sucks, because I've been making substantially progress up
here, had a couple spots of good luck, and I expect to have the ship ready jump
in and retrieve you in about a month. That's only one week longer than the
original schedule."

"Fantastic, Skippy, that is incredible, and we'll
give you the slow clap of amazement when we get back up there-"

"Hey! A slow clap? Is this a sarcastic
thing?"

"What? No. Oh, uh, sorry, Skippy, I guess that
can have a double meaning. In this context, I meant we would be genuinely
amazed by how you fixed the ship."

"Damn, I will never understand monkey social
norms."

"Me neither, Skippy. Back to the subject, is
there anything you can do about that Kristang ship for us?"

"Not that I can think of yet, Joe. I have two
missiles, one ready and one partly assembled, only needs a propulsion
unit."

Only
 needed a propulsion unit? What was
he planning to do, launch it from a really big slingshot? "One missile
isn't much help, huh?"

"Unfortunately, no. That ship would detect one or
two missiles while they are inbound, and likely destroy them both beyond their
effective range; the Kristang who own that ship are barely maintaining their
internal systems and jump drive, but their sensor field and defensive batteries
are functional. A failed missile attack, at such long range, would get the
Kristang asking uncomfortable questions, and poking around places we'd rather
they don't look."

"Understood. I'm pretty sure none of us down here
can throw a rock up far enough to hit that ship in orbit, so you keep trying to
think of a solution, Ok?"

"I'll do my best, Joe. I'll do my best."

 

Skippy' best thinking, he admitted to me early the
next morning, wasn't nearly good enough. "I thunk on it all night, Joe, in
between, you know, building a starship out of moon dust up here. And I got a
whole lot of nothing. You military brains down there come up with an
idea?"

"No," I admitted. We'd talked about it late
into the night, tossing around increasingly unlikely and impractical ideas,
until I called a halt, and told everyone we'd begin again with fresh minds in
the morning. "No, Skippy, we also got nothing down here. We're working on
it. Let's both have faith, Ok?"

"Ok." He said quietly. The fact that he
didn't make a smartass remark told me how discouraged he was feeling.

His mood mirrored my own gloominess.

"Skippy, we have come way too far to fail now. We
got all the way to this star system without any power from the reactors, we
defeated a superior Kristang force without them firing a single shot at us, and
we've managed to survive on this damp, rainy, chilly mudball of a planet. Also,
I didn't kill anyone for singing Ninety Nine Bottles of Beer on the Wall, like,
way too many freakin' times, which is a solid gold gosh-darned miracle. I am
not giving up now."

Taking a tiny, tiny risk, I slid my butt along the
rock at the cavern entrance, so I had a clear view of the only partly cloudy
early morning sky. In theory, the Kristang ship might have a snowball's chance
in hell of seeing me, if it had been looking right at our cavern through a gap
in the clouds at that exact second. Somewhere up there, at this time to the
right of Newark's small moon, was the microwormhole that we used to communicate
with Skippy. Looking up at the invisible wormhole, I felt just a tiny bit
closer to that annoying little beer can, an alien AI who I inexplicably felt
some measure of affection for. A true miracle from Skippy, the wormhole allowed
almost real-time communication through- "H-o-l-y shit."

"What?" Skippy asked.

"The way this microwormhole thingy works
is," I said very slowly, thinking through my idea as I spoke, "you
send radio waves through it, so we can talk without a big time lag?"

"Given your monkey-level understanding of
physics, sure, let's go with that. Oh, man, Albert Einstein would be weeping
for your species right now."

"You send photons through the wormhole, so-"

"Wait! Uh! Uh! Hush, you! Not this time. Not 
this

time! This is where you think you have some brilliant idea that I should have
thought of, right?"

"Uh, maybe?"

He laughed gleefully. "Ha! Hahahahahaha! I know
exactly what boneheaded monkey-brain idea you're going to tell me, and I can
tell you ahead of time, it won't work. You want me to send missiles through the
wormhole, and hit that ship. That's it, right? Hahaha! You can forget it,
Mister Smartypants, because that won't work. We only have one functioning
missile right now, remember, dumbass? Also, that wormhole is less than half a
nanometer in diameter, no way can we squeeze a missile through it. So, you're
not so freakin' smart, are you? Hahahahahaha!"

Skippy's rant hadn't let me get a word in. "You
done gloating now?" I asked.

"Give me a minute, I want to let this soak in.
Ahhhhhh, this feels good. I 
like
 this feeling. You think you're so
smart, and you're not. Here, pretend I just tossed a coin into your hat, dance
for me, monkey, dance!"

"Great," I said. "Because I was going
to suggest you send a maser cannon beam through the wormhole, not a
missile."

A long silence. Long. Like, really, awkwardly long.
Then, Skippy said "
Damn it
! Excuse me, I'm going offline a moment
so I can smash something."

"Skippy?" Silence. "Skippy?"

"Yeah, yeah, I'm here," he finally grumbled.

"Did you smash something? You feel better
now?"

"I didn't smash anything yet, but there's a pair
of small moons here that are going to have a 
very
 bad freakin’ day in
about two hours. A maser cannon shot through the wormhole, huh?"

"That's the idea."

"Damn you, Mister Smartypants. You have no idea
how thoroughly, utterly humiliating this is for me."

"I'd love to hear, can you explain in great
detail? Don't leave anything out, all of us ignorant monkeys on this end would
truly enjoy hearing it, I'll record it for you. How does this make you feel,
with your god-like intelligence?"

"Sure, I'll pencil you in for the twelfth of
Never, or how about the fourth of Shut-the-hell-up, do either of those dates
work for you?"

Maybe I should have named him 'Snarky' instead of
Skippy. "The maser beam thing, it will work?"

Skippy sighed. Deep down, all the way into whatever
spacetime most of him resided, he had to be incredibly frustrated with himself.
"Yes, yes, it will. I'll need to refocus the emitter to narrow the beam,
that will attenuate the power somewhat, hmm, I can goose up the, well, this is
all technical stuff on my end, nothing worth explaining to monkeys. Yes, it
will work. We'll only get one shot at this, pun intended, transmitting that
much power through the wormhole will collapse it completely. After we shoot, I
won't know whether it worked, until your radio signal gets here more than an
hour later. We'll be limited to slow speed of light communications after we
lose the wormhole. We need to make this one shot count, I'll have to target
their reactor directly. Breach containment there, and that ship is a nice
firework in the sky for you. The remaining problem with this plan is, I have
only a limited ability to aim the beam when it comes out your end of the
wormhole, and that ship's orbit right now doesn't take it within the targeting
cone. You got any ideas how to fix that?"

"Uh, huh, figured that might be a problem."
I thought a moment. How to get a ship to change its orbit? "Yeah, I
might."

"Does your idea involve sending a message to that
ship, asking it to pose for a photo in front of our wormhole?"

"Um, no. Our two stealthed satellites, you can
move them, slowly, without the Kristang detecting?"

"Yes. Those satellites are tiny, Joe, so forget
about me trying to smash one into that ship. If that is your best idea, we are
in big trouble."

"That wasn't my idea. How about this: you
position one of them some place away from the microwormhole, and then you
adjust the satellite's stealth field, so it looks like a stealthed ship whose
field is failing? You can do that?"

"Piece of cake, Joe. I'm waiting for the
brilliant part of your plan. If you don't have that, the only mildly stupid
part of your plan would amuse me, also."

"Great. If that Kristang ship thinks another
ship, a stealthed ship, is suddenly in the area, will it jump away
immediately?"

"No, not from where it is, the ship is too deep
in the gravity well for it to jump away right now, it would need to-, oh, I see
your plan now. I position our satellite to flush the Kristang ship toward our
wormhole as it tries to climb out to jump distance, so I can get a clean shot
at it?"

"Yup, that's the plan. Will that work?"

"You are such a smartass," Skippy said with
a disgusted snort. "I hate you."

"I love you too, Skippy."

"And?"

"I'm not saying I love you back!" He said
disgustedly.

"The 'and', in this case, means," I
explained patiently "
and
, will my plan work?"

"Yes."

"I couldn't hear that very well, Skippy, did you
just say a monkey plan will work, when your incredible intelligence couldn't
think of a way out of this mess?"

"YES! For crying out loud, I said 
yes
.
Damn, you are annoying. You know what, when I get this ship fixed up, I am
declaring it a monkey-free zone. No filthy monkeys allowed. Ah, it will be like
paradise up here."

"Yeah, paradise," I pointed out the flaw in
his plan, "except for the part about you being stuck right there for
eternity, or until the 
Dutchman's
 orbit degrades, and the ship falls
into the gas giant's atmosphere. After that, you will sink to the core of a
slowly cooling planet, until the heat death of the universe, quadrillions of
years from now?"

"Yup. No monkeys. Like I said, paradise."

 

Skippy only had one shot at that ship. Of course, he
only needed one shot, despite his grumbling about how we were asking him to do
the impossible, as usual, and how we didn't truly appreciate his incredible
awesomeness. To shut him up, I offered to bake a cake in his honor when we got
back aboard the 
Dutchman
. That afternoon, while the Kristang ship
frantically accelerated to jump altitude to get away from a phantom ship that
didn't exist, Skippy fired a full-power maser cannon beam through the wormhole,
scoring a direct hit on that ship's already overheated reactor. The result was
a brief, bright flare in the partly cloudy sky, and then silence. No Kristang
ship above us, but also no Skippy.

On our zPhones, we were able to view satellite data
that showed the Kristang ship exploding. After the debris field cleared, we
tracked pieces of the ship in orbit, the largest piece was smaller than a
dropship. All the pieces were dead, no internal power, no signs of life. For
days after, we saw things burning up as they fell into the atmosphere. The
satellites were supposed to notify us immediately if any piece of the ship
began moving on its own, or generating power, or transmitting signals. Just in
case, I checked satellite images and data several times a day, and ordered the
team to maintain cover.

Several hours after he shot the maser cannon through
the microwormhole, Skippy saw the distinctive flash of a reactor losing
containment, then jump drive coils exploding, as the Kristang ship ceased to
exist, so he knew he'd accomplished his mission. That part of his mission,
anyway, he still needed to finish rebuilding the busted 
Dutchman
. The
time lag for radio signals was enough of a problem, the larger problem being
that our low-powered zPhone antennas could barely pick up signals from the 
Dutchman
,
and it was almost impossible for the 
Dutchman
 to hear our weak
transmissions at all. We managed to maintain only the minimum communication
necessary, the bandwidth limited us to text messages only, no voice.

That began the absolutely most miserable period of our
time on Newark. For one, it rained most days, and without Skippy we didn't have
weather forecasts, we could see satellite images, and there was nothing but
solid cloud cover most of the time. The only time we could safely go out of the
cavern was when there were solid clouds overhead, we couldn't risk being seen
walking around, if there was a Kristang presence in orbit that we didn't know
about. Our time outside was limited, if we went for a run or a strenuous hike,
our heat signatures might be detectable even through a thick cloud layer. Most
of the time, we stayed bundled up in our now grimy, smelly and always-damp cold
weather gear. After we'd been stuck inside for three solid days of rain, I
ventured out to collect grass, low-growing brush, and a sort of lichen off the
rocks. We laid it out to dry in the back of the cavern, and two days later, we
risked a small fire in a side cavern that had a hole in the roof. As best we
could, we took off the under layers of our clothes and hung them up to dry. The
clothes I got back smelled like a damp grass fire, but they were warm and dry.
Man, that felt good, my skin had been starting to get minor sores, from
constantly wearing the same wet clothes.

The only food we had left were cold, rehydrated
sludges. At least people back at the main caverns near the cathedral had hot
food, real food, and a variety of it. The worst for our group, huddled together
in our damp, cramped, mud-floor caverns, was the lacking. Lack of exercise.
Lack of anything to do. Lack of purpose. Lack of real food. People, even
dedicated, elite special forces troops, get bored, and little frictions added
up. The team leaders handled the minor disputes well, without me needing to get
involved.

For my part, I found myself missing being able to talk
with Skippy, not only not being able to get detailed status reports, I missed
simply talking with that annoying, insulting beer can. When we finally received
the message from Skippy that the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
 was ready to
come to Newark, I felt like dancing. To spare myself the embarrassment, I
didn't. What I did do was pass the word around that we'd soon be getting off
Newark, and I transmitted back to the 
Dutchman
 the 'go' code, to
activate the jump we had programmed into the autopilot before we departed the
ship.

Seven hours later, Skippy's voice once more boomed out
of my zPhone. "Greetings, Colonel Joe and the whole barrel of monkeys down
there! Tis I, Skippy the Magnificent. Because of my amazing beneficence, I
bring you a starship that is almost as good as new, including such luxuries as
heat, and oxygen! Also, the deluxe rustproof under coating package, at no extra
charge!"

"Skippy!" I couldn't keep the pure glee out
of my voice. "We're safe, there are no Kristang up there?"

"Yessiree, there be no lizards around these
parts. Parts of that ship are still tumbling in orbit, but it's no threat, no
one is alive aboard the wreck. We'd better hit them with a maser anyway, before
we leave, just in case. How are you doing, Joe? I've been monitoring the
weather, and it sure looks depressing."

"I'm all right, Skippy, we're all Ok down here.
Damn, it is good to hear from you. I missed your irascible self," I said
before realizing I was talking on an open channel.

"Ah, you're just happy that I brought the ship
back, so you can get off that miserable frozen mudball."

"That, too. You, uh, allowing monkeys aboard your
squeaky-clean ship?"

"Yuck. I'd forgotten about that. Filthy monkeys,
doing filthy monkey things? Ah, what the hell, you caught me in a generous
mood, Joe. Come on up here, before I change my mind. I've got two dropships on
the way down. We'll need several trips to bring up everyone and all your stuff,
so I loaded clean clothes and fresh food aboard."

"That was very thoughtful of you, Skippy, thank
you."

"Like I said," he grumbled, "hurry,
before I change my mind."

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY SEVEN

 

The dropship he sent down to the assault party
couldn't hold all of us, it was the smaller of the two dropships we had left. I
stayed behind, and enjoyed warm, clean, dry clothes and a hot meal of real
food, while the dropship cycled up to orbit and back again. With Captain
Smythe, I sent the Elder AI and the comm node up to the ship, knowing Skippy
was anxious to get those two items aboard as soon as possible. We both had
hoped that, by some miracle, when the new AI got close enough to Skippy, it
would activate somehow, and also that he could figure out how to make the comm
node work.

He called me shortly after the dropship was aboard the

Dutchman
, it surprised me how quickly he ran his analysis of the Elder
artifacts. "No dice, Joe, the AI and the comm node are both dead as
doornails. Crap, this isn't right. What could kill an AI like me? This
frightens me."

"You're certain it was alive at some point, it
wasn't just a canister that never got an AI loaded into it?" That would be
the best scenario for Skippy.

"No such luck, Joe. No, there is a residual
presence there, jumbled data, something bad happened to him. The connection of
the canister, as you call it, to other dimensions has been broken, it's now
merely a beer can of tightly-packed exotic materials. It was a long time ago,
too, I can tell that for certain. And there's something else; whatever happened
to this AI, it happened roughly around the time Newark got pushed out of its
original orbit. That can't be a coincidence. If we could, I'd like to stay here
and investigate this planet in detail."

"We're going to leave our two satellites, here,
right? They'll collect data, we can swing by in the future and see if they
found anything interesting." I wanted to know if our satellites ever saw a
Kristang ship poking around the places we had lived on Newark. Even though we
were going to be careful to take our trash back up with us, there was plenty of
evidence from DNA alone, that humans had been on Newark. If the Kristang ever
learned that fact, they were going to start asking uncomfortable questions, and
I wanted advanced notice if that ever happened. Skippy judged it very unlikely
the Kristang would ever again bother with Newark at all, now that it had been
emptied of useful Elder artifacts, and I agreed with him. I also needed to be
prudent and not assume something very bad would never happen.

"The satellites will help, a bit, what I'd like
to do is perform a deep scan that the satellites can't do. Even for me, a scan
like that could take months, I'd be running time back in other spacetimes,
there's no way to rush that, darn it. I really do need to know what happened
here, it does not make any sense. What bothers me most about it, is this
incident calls into question what I think I know about the Elders. Perhaps I
should have said, that's what bothers me most, other than an entire sentient
species being wiped out, of course."

"I knew what you meant, Skippy. Sorry about your,
I guess, brother AI. Can you do anything with that comm node?"

"No. Frustratingly, no. It's like the first one
we captured from that Kristang research base, it appears to be fully
functional, but it is not connecting to the network. I'll keep working with it,
I don't have much else to do."

Or, I didn't say, maybe there was no longer any
network to connect to. Skippy had to be worrying about that, he didn't need me
to remind him of that awful possibility. If there was no longer any network
enabling the Collective, then our entire fool's errand of a mission was doubly
worthless.

 

The dropship coming back was a welcome sight, even if
Skippy did set the damned thing down a half kilometer away, and a cold rain was
pouring down from dark gray skies. I didn't care, I was getting safely off
Newark, my entire crew was safely off Newark, in fact, I was the very last
person to leave the planet. Chang was aboard the 
Dutchman
, Simms had
stayed at the main cavern until the last person and last piece of equipment and
last scrap of trash had been loaded into a dropship. To speed up clearing
evidence of our presence off the planet, I had ordered Skippy to use both
dropships at the main cavern, until Simms declared they were finished. Until
then, I waited in our cramp, damp cave, in my relatively clean, warm, dry
clothes. With me were two US Army Rangers and three Indian paratroopers who had
volunteered to remain behind with me, because there hadn't been enough room
aboard the first dropship. We played cards and enjoyed eating real, hot food,
and the day and a half delay almost flew by, because we knew we were leaving.

We spent a few minutes peering around rocks in the
caverns, making sure we hadn't left a sludge container or an old sock behind,
then dashed through the rain to the open door of the dropship. I paused at the
bottom of the ramp, my boots still sinking into the chilled mud of Newark.
"What is it, sir?" One of the Rangers asked.

Looking up at the leaden sky, blinking away raindrops,
I said "It seems like I should say something profound, something better
than 'we are 
so
 out of here'. This planet wasn't always the half frozen
pile of shit we experienced, it was a nice place once, with forests and deserts
and tropical beaches. Like Earth. An entire civilization, and entire species,
an entire 
biosphere
 was wiped out here. I feel like I should say
something about these people. Maybe more important, say something about whoever
the hell it was that did this."

The Ranger nodded. "We are unlikely to do anything
against beings who moved an entire planet, so how about 'vengeance is mine,
sayeth the Lord'?"

"That's good," I agreed.

One of the Indian soldiers said "We have a saying
that is, in essence, something like that; we say 'karma is a bitch'. Whoever pushed
this planet out of orbit is going to get what's coming to them, one way or
another."

"Amen, brother." The Ranger said, and they
bumped fists.

That was more eloquent than anything I could have
said, so I kicked the mud off my boots, walked up the ramp, and left Newark
behind.

 

Being aboard the somewhat sterile, artificial
environment of the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
 again was like paradise,
compared to the damp chilliness of Newark. The air aboard the ship was warm and
dry, my clothing was clean and dry, I had a bed to sleep in, and real food to
eat. My initial thought was to declare our first day back aboard a 'fend for
yourself' day in the galley, figuring I'd spare anyone from taking a shift in
the galley. Fortunately, Colonel Chang had already set a duty roster, and the Chinese
team had a hot bowl of noodles waiting for me, after I dumped my dirty clothes
off in my cabin and took a too-quick shower. The galley didn't look much different
from before, maybe a bit larger, one of the bulkheads was further away from the
door than I remembered. The whole compartment was a soothing light blue color,
Skippy had done a great job. The bowl of noodles, and a cup of hot tea with
sugar in it, tasted like heaven. I even tried eating the noodles with
chopsticks, I was in such a good mood. "You know what I need?” I asked in
particular, thinking that an hour in the gym would do me good. Or maybe a game
of basketball, I felt soft and slow from laying around inactive too long. I
should have known not to ask an open-ended question like that when Skippy was
around, I’d gotten used to being away from him on Newark.

"A shower?" Skippy suggested from the
speaker in the ceiling. 

I shook my head as people laughed. "I showered
after I came aboard."

Skippy made a sniffing sound. “Hmm, doesn't smell like
it. Maybe you could rinse off with some of that degreaser we use on the engine
couplings. Hey, Joe, there weren’t any showers on Newark?”

“No, Skippy, of course not," I replied while
slurping hot noodles.

“Huh. Without a shower, how did you take care of your
morning boner?”

There was nothing I could do, other than sit there
with a sheepish look on my face while people laughed. “Man, I am missing Newark
already,” I said.

 

Skippy hadn't only repaired the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
,
he had modified it. On the dropship ride up, I'd noticed our formerly very
long, spindly star carrier had been substantially shortened. Shortened to the
point where, instead of long rows of docking hardpoints for shorter-range
starships, there were only three hardpoints, arranged in a single ring. Instead
of the engineering section at the aft end of the ship being so far away that it
appeared not to be attached to the same ship, it was right behind the trio of
hardpoints. "New and improved, Joe," Skippy told me, "except for
the new part. And maybe the improved part. Well, some of it is improved."

I snapped my fingers. "Before I forget, Skippy,
while you refueled the ship, did you get some for yourself?" Dr.
Friedlander on the science team had inquired about Skippy's own fuel requirements,
and that reminded me to ask him. The last time we talked about it, he only had
several thousand years before he ran out of fuel. "You need, something
like, metallic hydrogen?" Which I personally didn't know was a real thing
or not, I thought hydrogen was a gas, not a metal. But then, what did I know of
science?

"Yes, yes, I did, Joe, thank you for asking. It
wasn't much, enough for eight hundred years or so. It will have to do for
now."

"Great. Improvements, huh?" According to the
display, we now had two functioning reactors. Two. Not six, not even four. Two.
"Does reducing the number of reactors count as an improvement?"

"Yes, Joe," Skippy assured me, "these
two reactors make the power of three original ones, they're more reliable, and
they require a lot less maintenance, and their shielding is way better. A
near-miss by an exploding warhead won't knock these new reactors out. Not as
easily, anyway."

We also had only forty percent of the original
compliment of jump drive coils, which was not a problem, Skippy said, because
he'd reconfigured the entire drive, top to bottom. "Should have done this
when we first took this ship," he said proudly, "that Thuranin drive
was crap anyway. Now we can jump thirty percent further, and the coils charge
eighteen percent faster. Also, the coils are divided into three separate banks,
so if one bank of coils goes out of calibration, we can use the two others. Or
just one, if needed, in an emergency."

I'd noticed the three docking hardpoints were empty.
"The 
Flower
 is gone?"

"Yeah, sorry about that, I know you liked having
a spare tire. That ship contained components and materials I couldn't get
elsewhere, and I needed its reactor to supply power for a while. The 
Flower

dipped into the atmosphere to get fuel, after it was done with that, I had to
take it apart, and use most of it as a high-energy particle accelerator, to
manufacture exotic materials. What was left, I loaded with trash and dropped it
into the gas giant. It was a good little ship, Joe, actually, it was a piece of
shit, but it served us well."

Desai wouldn't be happy about that, while she loved
flying the giant 
Flying
 
Dutchman
, the 
Flower
 was the first
starship she'd ever flown. "You did what you had to, Skippy, you performed
a miracle up here, I'm sure not going to be the ungrateful monkey who second
guesses you. We have only the two dropships?"

"Unfortunately, yes. Plus one drone that can be
used for performing maintenance outside the ship. Should I check if any
dropship dealers in the area are having a holiday blow-out sale?"

"Ha! Somehow, I suspect our credit isn't good out
here."

"Good point. Unless the dealer will swap a
dropship for bananas."

 

After a hearty bowl of noodles, I went to my office
near the bridge, reading reports on my iPad, trying to act like a real colonel.
What I really wanted to do was go play basketball or just hit the gym. That
could wait for later. There was no rush, we'd done two successful jumps away
from Newark, and Skippy was fiddling with minor adjustments to the jump drive
unit. I had just bent down to untie a boot, to get comfortable for a long
session of intense boredom, when Skippy called me through my zPhone earpiece.

"Hey, Joey, I have some, um, a bit of bad news
for you."

"Ah, damn it, I knew I should have brought tequila
or something on this trip, I need a drink before you tell me any more bad news.
Do I a favor, is this bad news of the
Joe-needs-to-dream-up-a-way-out-of-a-mess-Skippy-got-us-into variety?"

"No, this bad news is of the
pissed-off-aliens-attacking-Earth-and-turning-it-into-a-wasteland,
in-the-process-wiping-out-humanity variety."

"Holy shit." I retied my boot lace with
fingers that were already shaking.

"Blasphemy is a particularly bad idea right now,
Joe. Prayer would be entirely appropriate in this case.”

"What the hell happened? For crying out loud, we
just left Newark behind!"

"Well, heh, heh, you know that Kristang ship I
blew up there?"

"My idea."

"Oh, man, are you 
ever
 going to give that
up?"

"What do you think?"

"No. You aren't. In your defense, I wouldn't
either, if I was in your place," Skippy admitted. "That was a pretty
great idea."

"Yup. So?"

"Sooooooo, before I ripped that ship apart with a
perfectly aimed particle beam shot through a weak spot in its reactor
containment shielding, one hell of a shot, by the way. The microwormhole exit
point nutates in a random fashion, because I had to avoid causing a detectible
rupture in spacetime right there, and with time dilation, I had to estimate how
the particle beam would be affected by the nutation. As far as I'm aware, this
is the first time a wormhole has been used to deliver a particle beam, it was
an interesting exercise. I realized that I needed to create, or perhaps more
accurately recreate, a branch of mathematics, using a variation of topological
invariants. Then there was the speed of light time lag between the wormhole and
the ship, to deal with that I realized I needed to first tag that ship with a
low-powered targeting laser in order to establish-"

"Skippy!"

"What?"

"Back to the subject, please?"

"Huh?"

I rolled my eyes. That beer can needed to create a
submind to keep track of his thoughts. "The subject, please. You know, the
bad news about aliens turning Earth into a wasteland?"

"Oh, yeah. Huh. Anyway, hitting that ship's
reactor, with a particle beam through a wormhole, was an incredible shot, if I
do say so myself."

"You did say so yourself."

"If I didn't, how would you know how awesome I
am?"

"I don't know, how about, hey, there's a
suggestion, you tell me about this big threat to Earth, and how you found out
about it?"

"Easy peasy, Joe. Before I hit that ship, I was
able to download some data from its computer memory. There wasn't time for a
full download, especially with the narrow bandwidth I was working with through
the microwormhole, so all I was able to get is a stack of messages intended for
the leaders of the scavenger group on the surface; mostly messages from their
clan. I was super busy, so I didn't bother to read through that pile of crap
until a few minutes ago. One of those messages warns of an impending power
shift among the clans, it seems that with the loss of a wormhole connection to
Earth, and the Kristang's retreat from Pradassis, that's the planet you humans
call 'Paradise', the fortunes of the White Wind clan took a major, in fact
fatal, blow. The White Wind clan has been forced to seek a more powerful clan
to ally with, the cold truth is the White Wind are going to be absorbed into
the more powerful clan, calling it an alliance is a transparent face saving
move for the White Wind leadership. The alternative to being absorbed is being
conquered, and their territories and properties divided by the victors."

"Sucks to be them, huh? I don't know anyone here
who is going to shed any tears if their entire clan gets smashed. How does this
threaten Earth? All the Kristang on the Earth end of the wormhole are dead,
right?" I tensed, fearing his answer. My home planet was defenseless
against even a single Kristang ship, if there were stragglers we didn't know
about before we left Earth orbit.

"It threatens Earth because, according to
Kristang law, which is adhered to more strictly than you may expect, given what
a nasty bunch of lizards they are, for a clan to be formally absorbed, the clan
that is losing its identity must have unanimous approval from the senior clan
leaders. This unanimous approval sometimes is achieved by assassination of clan
leaders who disagree, the law doesn't prevent that. Kristang law is both rigid
and flexible, the formalities must be rigidly adhered to, the morality behind
the laws is more of a 'meh' thing."

"Fine, interesting, and?"

"And, um, here's the thing. Heh, heh, this is
kind of ironic. The law of unintended consequences and all that."

My Spidey sense was tingling at Level Ten. "What
the hell did you do, Skippy?" I asked carefully.

"Technically, it's what I didn't do. Or, I guess,
it's what I did, or we did, in my defense, hey, no, you know what, as a matter
of fact, it's what 
you
 asked me to do. So, this is your fault. Yeah,
yeah, that's it! This is all your fault. Humans, I mean, not only you
personally. Although, mostly you, personally."

"Skippy, you once told me that the Andromeda
galaxy is going to collide with the Milky Way in about, what, four billion
years?"

"Uh huh, that's right, why?"

"Is there any chance you'll get to the freakin'
point before then?"

He made an exasperated huffing sound. "Fine.
Sure. What I did, because you asked me to, is wipe out the Kristang on Earth.
Including effectively pounding their last two sites into dust with railguns."

"We did ask you to do that," I couldn't see
why that could be a problem, "and we thank you for your help. What didn't
you do? Are there any Kristang alive on the Earth side of the wormhole?"

"No, not that I know of. I told you that."

"Thuranin?" I asked fearfully.

"Nope. Look, if you'll stop asking stupid
questions, I'll tell you, or this conversation really will last forever. What I
didn't do, and you didn't ask me, or remind me, and that part is entirely on
you, hundred percent, was I didn't dig through the enormous pile of data in the
Kristang's computers at Earth, on their ships and on the ground. If I had done
that then, I may have discovered that two senior leaders of the White Wind clan
were on Earth at the time. I started sifting through the data in their
computers, before we, you know, blew up those computers, and 99 percent of it
was the usual boring messages back and forth. Like 'oh I got so hammered last
night' and 'this planet sucks' and 'my boss is an asshole' or 'we should kill
all the humans'. The usual BS, I lost interest in digging through it, which is
why I didn't realize senior clan leaders were there. They were there to oversee
the operation of fully securing your planet, of finding some way to turn a
profit on their risky venture, and to show support for what they must have
known by that time, was a sinking ship."

"Two senior clan leaders were there. They're dead
now?"

"Affirmative. One was aboard that frigate I
jumped into your sun, the other was at a site I hit with a missile strike in
the first attack."

Before asking another question, I stopped to think.
Skippy said he'd missed something, and he was terribly absent minded. If I
didn't ask the right question, he might never tell me what I needed to know.
"They're dead, they died right away. We couldn't have negotiated with
them, because they were dead. The White Wind clan can't agree to be formally
absorbed, so other clans will pick them apart. I still don't see why this is
our problem."

"It is your problem, Joe, because the clan that
is absorbing them, the Fire Dragons, wants to avoid a protracted fight over the
White Wind. The Fire Dragons, while much stronger than the White Wind, have
been stretched thin recently, the wormhole shift hurt them also. They are
rather desperate to get formal approval to absorb the White Wind clan and its
assets without a fight. They are so desperate, that they are paying the
Thuranin to send a long-range ship to Earth, all the way there without a
wormhole, in order to bring back those two senior White Wind clan
leaders."

"Oh, shit," I almost choked on my words.

"Hence why I described this as an
end-of-the-world thing for you humans."

We were screwed. We were totally screwed. If the
Thuranin got to Earth, they would not only discover all the Kristang there were
dead, they would surely learn, by raiding our databases, all about the 
Flower

and the 
Dutchman
, the merry band of pirates, and about Skippy. And that
the wormhole near Earth had been shut down deliberately. And that little fact,
about our ability to manipulate wormholes, would get every technologically
advanced species in the galaxy very interested in Earth. Such interest would
not be healthy for humans. "We need to stop that long-range ship,
Skippy."

"Probably a good idea. My best estimate, for the
earliest when that ship could arrive at Earth, is twenty nine months from now.
We, of course, can get to Earth long before then, by reopening that wormhole.
The easiest time to hit that ship is when it arrive-"

"No way. No way, Skippy, and we don't have
anything like twenty nine months. Tell me, what will the Thuranin do, if their
ship doesn't return in about five years?"

"Most likely? They will wait another six months
or so, then they will begin to worry. Then they will almost certainly send
another ship. Likely more than one ship."

"Exactly. If that ship disappears at Earth, or on
its way to Earth, the Thuranin are going to be very suspicious about what is
going on at Earth. Tell me, what would happen if that long-range ship was
instead destroyed in Thuranin territory, before it even gets started on the
actual journey to Earth?"

"Hmm. Good question. Give me a moment to research
the history of similar incidents, this could take a while. Done. Most likely,
in this case an 84% probability, the Thuranin would tell the Fire Dragon clan
that the Thuranin consider the contract fulfilled, because the Thuranin made a
good-faith attempt to reach Earth, and with the loss of the ship the Fire
Dragons hired, the contract is closed. The Thuranin have only a handful of
long-range ships that could reach Earth, such ships are frightfully expensive.
It is also unlikely the Fire Dragons could afford to fund a second expedition
to Earth. Other clans who want a piece of the White Wind would see additional
delay as a signal to strike, and the Fire Dragons would need to act
quickly."

"Exactly. See my point? We need to destroy that
long-range ship while it's still in Thuranin territory. Destroy it in a way
that the Thuranin think it got hit during a random Jeraptha fleet engagement,
that whoever destroyed that ship didn't consider it anything special, that ship
wasn't specifically targeted. Damn. That means we'll need to hit other Thuranin
ships at the same time, or right after. This is going to be a major, major
deal." I needed to bring other people into the planning. "Will that
long-range ship have escorts?"

"Certainly. It will typically have two support
ships, to refuel and resupply the long-range ship at the point where it begins
its solo journey, the support ships will turn back at that point. And I expect
there will also be a warship escort, a pair of frigates, maybe a destroyer. The
long-range ship is basically a highly modified star carrier, with an extra pair
of reactors, triple the number of jump drive coils, and no attachment points
for carrying other ships. Also more robust self-repair capabilities than a
standard star carrier. And it has full capabilities to refuel itself along the
way. Like a star carrier, it is not intended for ship-to-ship combat."

"An easy target, then?"

"Ahhh, not for us. The 
Dutchman
 isn't a
true warship either. Especially now."

"Understood, we'll need the advantage of
surprise. Plus plenty of Skippy magic. Do you know where this long-range ship,
hey, is there a name for this type of ship?" Saying 'long-range ship'
every time was going to get old.

"The Thuranin do not name their classes of ships,
each class has a numeric designation. However, the Thuranin copied the basic
design from the Jeraptha, and the Jeraptha refer to such ships as survey
cruisers, or surveyors."

"Surveyors. That's good. Do you know where this
surveyor is now, and what course it is taking to Earth?"

"Nope. That data wasn't in the messages I
downloaded, the message was more clan politics and rumors than actionable
intelligence."

That made me rub my temples with my fingers, I was
going to have a headache for sure. "Damn it, this means we'll need to
shadow a Thuranin battlegroup again, to get access to their databanks?"
That was way too risky, with the Maxohlx hanging around.

"No, here's a piece of good news. The Fire Dragon
clan paid to hire the surveyor, and part of the deal is the surveyor will take
four Kristang with them, two from the Fire Dragon clan and two from the White
Wind. I'm sure the Thuranin are disgusted about having Kristang aboard their
ship. The Fire Dragons will know where the surveyor ship is going to pick them
up, and how it's getting to Earth, at least a rough outline of the ship's
course. The Kristang have gotten screwed by the Thuranin on shipping contracts
so many times, they insist on very strict and detailed terms, including metrics
about, oh, damn it, I'm using buzzwords. I sound like one of your stupid PowerPoint
slides! Being around you monkeys has infected my brain. Anyway, we can sneak
into a star system that is occupied by the Fire Dragons, and I'll steal the
data we need from one of their communication relays. The Maxohlx may still have
warships accompanying Thuranin battlegroups, we need to steer clear of
them."

"That is good news. You got any more?"

"Nothing worth mentioning, no, unfortunately.
Except that, from here, we can get to Fire Dragon territory within two
weeks."

"If you think of anything else," I stood up
and hit the button to open the door, "let me know. I need to tell the
crew, and get working on a plan. Set course for Fire Dragon territory, I'll
inform the pilot that we're changing course. Again."

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY EIGHT

 

The senior staff were all gathered in the galley,
waiting for me. Chang was there, along with Simms, and the leader of each
country's SpecOps team. Plus Desai, representing the pilots, and Dr. Venkman
representing the science team, because I needed creative ideas from the science
team. And Sergeant Adams, although technically not senior staff, she was there
because I needed practical ideas. "We have a problem, a serious problem.
Not with the ship," I added hurriedly as I saw concern on people's faces.
"The ship is fine, and will be ready to jump again in six hours."

"Yup," Skippy said, "the ship is
hunky-dory, all-"

"Skippy, I will be speaking," I cut him off.
"I'd appreciate it if you hold your comments until I request your
input."

Faces around the galley reflected surprise, they all
expected me to joke around with Skippy as usual. The fact that I didn't, told
them this was not business as usual. Of course I couldn't see Skippy's face,
the tone of his voice spoke volumes. "Very well, Colonel," is all he
said, with no snarkiness, or friendliness.

"Thank you. Skippy was able to access data from
the ship that he destroyed in orbit over Newark, part of the data was messages
to the scavenger leader from his clan. To us, the most important of those
messages states that the Kristang are paying the Thuranin to send a special
long-range ship to Earth, without using a wormhole. That ship will arrive at
Earth in twenty nine months." People gasped and glanced at each other in
fear and shock. “You can see why this is a problem. We not only need to stop
that long-range ship from reaching Earth, we need to destroy it in a way that
the Thuranin will not realize the ship was attacked by humans, or even that the
ship was attacked because its destination is Earth. Somehow, we need to destroy
that ship, and make it look like an ordinary casualty of war. But, first, we
need to find it.”

 

On the trip from Newark to Fire Dragon clan territory,
we had a lot of time to come up with a plan to destroy the surveyor ship and
its escorts, before the surveyor began its long lonely journey to Earth. Our
collective brainpower, including Skippy, had nothing. Zero. No clue how, in our
no-longer-quite-a-star carrier, we could take on even one ship, without the 
Dutchman

very likely being destroyed in the process. I was getting increasingly
desperate, even considering a suicide mission where the 
Dutchman
 would
jump in way too close to the surveyor, hit it with everything we had, and
detonate the dozen nukes in our cargo bay. Before I did something so desperate,
I would need to find an uninhabited planet that could sustain human life, to drop
off most of the crew. Trouble is, Skippy pointed out, planets that could
support complex, sentient lifeforms, and were within practical range of a
wormhole, were rare and valuable, and likely already had someone living there.
Even if I kept everyone aboard the 
Dutchman
 and self-destructed the
ship, it might not result in killing the surveyor ship, and even if it did, the
enemy would know the surveyor had been the target of someone very desperate,
desperate to stop that ship from reaching Earth. So, we were back to square
one. We needed data on where the surveyor was, where it was going, and what
ships would be escorting it. Without that, we were only playing useless 'what
if' games.

 

Which is why I found myself alone with Skippy, in the
smaller of our two remaining Thuranin dropships, buried inside a small
ice-and-dirt comet, drifting at high speed toward a Kristang data relay owned
by the Fire Dragon clan.

 

Our biggest problem, I had decided with a genius flash
of insight while I was in the gym, was not that the 
Flying
 
Dutchman

was only one ship, or that it had been designed as a star carrier instead of a
purpose-built combatant intended to engage enemy ships directly, or that our 
Dutchman

now had only two reactors instead of the original six. No, after I'd spent a
full hour in a brainstorming session that had yielded absolutely nothing, I
realized the problem was that we didn't have enough missiles. If we had a whole
lot of ship-killer missiles, we could jump in near an enemy ship, launch a
cloud of missiles, jump to another nearby location, launch more missiles, and
so on. Minimize the risk to the Dutchman with quick jumps, and eventually our
barrage of missiles was bound to overwhelm an enemy ship's defenses and score a
hit. The surveyor could jump away, we'd track it and jump to follow. "Hey,
Skippy," I said while bending down to wash my hands in a too-low Thuranin
sink, "can we make more missiles, and by 'we', I mean you? With the
equipment we have aboard the 
Dutchman
?"

"Nope."

That wasn't quite the detailed answer I was hoping
for. "Because? Come on, Skippy, usually you want to give me a ton more
info than I ask for."

"And you ignore me and interrupt me until I can
dumb it down sufficiently, so my answer to you is a simple 'nope', you dope. I
already told you, what we have aboard is all we’re going to have. Some items,
like the atomic compression warheads, are impossible to create, without very
large, specialized facilities. The missiles propulsion units are also not
something I can make out of moon dust and dreams. In addition to the limited
number of Thuranin Model 30 missiles we have, that's what their designation
translates as, I was able to scrape together enough material to create a few
ship-to-ship missiles, roughly equivalent to a Kristang design that went
obsolete about seven hundred years ago. That's the extent of my miracles,
Joe."

"Crap. Dang, I figured that, had to ask anyway.
All right, well, can we get more missiles somewhere?"

Skippy snorted. "Your time on Newark, away from
me, made you dumber, huh? Sure, Joey, we can pop over to the local Missile
Mart, they're having a two for one sale for new customers with good credit. You
moron."

"I'm serious, Skippy. We've got a ship full of
bad-ass SpecOps troops that are spoiling for another fight. We raided a heavily
guarded asteroid, there must be an armory somewhere or a stores ship, where we
can steal some missiles."

"Uh, no. Hmm, you know what? I wonder sometimes
if you can even hear yourself talk, or do monstrously idiotic ideas escape your
brain without you realizing that you are speaking out loud? The Thuranin, and
Kristang, have stores or supply ships, that transport materials to
battlegroups. Those do frequently contain missiles. Those ships are also always
escorted by combatant ships; frigates or destroyers, precisely because they are
such tempting targets."

"Damn. Scratch that idea."

"Raiding armories, another idiotic idea you
mentioned, is close to impossible. The facilities that Thuranin use to
manufacture missiles, and atomic compression warheads, are always on large,
rocky, airless or nearly airless planets or moons. Uninhabited planets or
moons, in case of industrial accidents, which happen from time to time. The
facilities are buried very deep underground, I'm talking kilometers
underground, and they extend for dozens of kilometers, or more. Making atomic
compression devices is a very energy intensive process, the Thuranin use them
because their explosive yield is near that of a nuclear weapon, without the
radiation that is banned by The Rules, remember?"

"Yeah, I remember." Rules enforced by the
Rindhalu and Maxohlx on the lesser species that did the fighting for them,
Rules intended to keep the war from spiraling out of control and damaging
precious habitable planets that the two dominant species cared about.
"You're right, no way can we raid a place like that. Whatever plan we come
up with, it needs to make do with the weapons we have now."

"Unfortunately, yes. Also unfortunately, I still
do not see a way this ship can destroy a surveyor and its escorts. Destroy that
ship, in a way which avoids the Thuranin realizing the surveyor was the
target."

"Uh huh. Damn it, there has to be a way to do
that, we just haven't thought of it yet."

"In an infinite multiverse of probabilities, you
may be right. In this particular localized spacetime, I do not see it."

 

Which is, again, why Skippy and I were in a dropship,
frozen under the surface of a dirty snowball, hurtling out of control on the
very outskirts of a star system controlled by the Fire Dragon clan. Burying a
dropship in a comet was the best idea we had for how we could sneak Skippy
close enough to the relay station so he could ransack it for data. He needed to
fly within three hundred thousand kilometers to do that, and as the relay would
not simply dump all their data to us if we asked nicely, we had to sneak in
close. It was a chicken and egg problem, Skippy explained, the access codes we
acquired when Skippy took over the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
 had since been
changes in the normal rotation schedule followed by the Thuranin. With such
codes, we could have simply jumped in near the relay, requested a data dump,
and been on our way. Data relay stations were maintained at the edge of star
systems so Thuranin ships could exchange information, without having to risk
traveling into the web of gravity wells and relatively close confines of the
star system. The only easy way to get data from a relay, including the full set
of access codes, was to have a proper access code. Which we didn't have. Thus,
it was a classic chicken and egg problem.

A dropship, even a small dropship with an optimally
functioning stealth field, could not get close enough to a relay station. While
a stealth field would conceal the dropship, the relay station's sensor field
would detect some hidden object distorting the field, and investigate closely.
Perhaps the investigation would take the form of a missile or maser beam
strike.

Which is why we, actually Captain Desai, had come up
with the idea of us capturing a dirty snowball, carving a dropship-size hole in
it, and covering the hole. We rendezvoused with a small comet in an uninhabited
neighboring star system and got it wrestled it into a docking bay, by a dozen
people in powered suits. The damn thing still massed a couple tons, and we had
to be very careful even in zero gravity, not to squash anyone by a clumsy move.
Once in the landing bay, which was kept in cold vacuum, we carved out a hole,
Skippy and I got into the dropship, and the guys in suits carefully maneuvered
us into the hole and covered it.

"This is an awful, idiotic, terrible, terrifying
idea," Skippy lamented, "an idea of epic, incredible, mind-blowing
stupidity, Joe. Truly, in the history of the galaxy, I can't think of anything
that even comes close."

"What?" I asked. "This is a hell of a
time to tell me now, Skippy. It was your idea to encase the dropship in a
comet!"

"Yeah, that idea is truly brilliant."

"Then what about this is terrifyingly
stupid?"

"I didn't think 
you
 would be flying the
dropship, Joe. We are doomed!"

"Very funny. 
Dutchman
, this is Barney,
we're ready in here."

"Roger that, Barney, you sit tight in
there," Desai replied.

Desai then accelerated the 
Dutchman
 in normal
space, so that when the comet was dropped off, it would have the precise course
and speed to fly by the relay station in the guise of uninteresting, ordinary
space junk that hung around the edges of all solar systems. The 
Dutchman

jumped in, gently released the comet, maneuvered to a safe distance, and jumped
away. We were on our own. If all went well, we would fly by the relay station
in twenty two hours, and the 
Dutchman
 would jump back into recover us in
twenty six hours after that. Yay! Forty eight hours, alone with Skippy. He was
as thrilled about it as I was.

"I hope you didn't eat anything gassy for
breakfast. And, damn, could you lay off the aftershave a bit?"

"Oatmeal and wheat toast for breakfast, no
worries there, Skippy. And I'm not wearing aftershave, I didn't bring any when
we left Earth, you ass."

He made a sniffing sound. "Ugh, so that's your
natural smell? Next time, you should reconsider not bringing aftershave. Oh,
damn, and there's not even a shower aboard this thing. This is going to be a
long trip."

"Uh huh. You want to play chess, or
something?"

"With you? Ha! Maybe a game of 'Go Fish'?"

We mostly left each other alone after that, I read a
book on my iPad, tried to nap, ate a simple lunch, and read some more, while
Skippy did whatever asshole beer cans did. When I finished the book, I tried
playing chess against my iPad, concluded my always miserable chess skills may
have somehow deteriorated, and glanced over at Skippy, who was strapped into
the copilot seat.

"Hey, Skippy, you there?"

"I'm here. Always. What's up?"

"Something's bothering me. Terrifies me,
actually. How did that Thuranin destroyer squadron set a trap for us?"

"They-"

"Because if they know humans are flying this
ship, then even if they don't know we messed with the wormhole, we are totally
screwed."

"I don't-"

"Did I screw up somewhere, Skippy? Did I get us
all killed? Not the crew here, I mean, did I get all of humanity killed?"

"You have-"

"I have to-" I started to say.

"Joseph Arthur Bishop!" Skippy fairly
shouted.

That set me back in my seat. "Wow. Only my mother
uses my middle name. And only when she's pissed at me."

"Whew, well, you weren't ever going to shut up so
I could get a word in. Rest easy, Joey, you didn't screw up. To be specific,
your myriad screw-ups are not why we got ambushed by the little green men. No
way were they waiting for us, no way in hell. If the Thuranin knew monkeys are
flying this ship, they would have established a layered defense, with
battleships at the center; battleships can project significantly more powerful
damping fields. We would have had zero chance to jump away, if we had
encountered a task force centered around battleships. The Thuranin would never
have assigned such a vital mission to a single squadron of destroyers. If they
knew one of their star carriers had been stolen, and they thought they knew
where it is, they'd send an entire battlegroup, at least. The Thuranin would
not screw around with half measures."

He had not yet convinced me. "I hear you, but,
what are the odds that we would jump into a trap like that? Don't give me the
odds calculated to a hundred freakin' decimal points, I'm asking a real-world
question here, not mathematics."

"No need to crunch numbers. I think we didn't
jump into a trap at all."

"How you figure that?"

"Simple. If it was a trap, there would have been
a lot more ships waiting for us, and we would be dead. Or, you monkeys would.
I'd be drifting in space, wishing I was dead. At least being in hard vacuum for
millions of years would get the monkey smell off me. Mostly. What I think
happened is, that Elder site that I thought had not yet been discovered
actually 
is
 known to the Thuranin, they took everything useful out of it
a long time ago. While they were ransacking the Elder site, they built up that
system as a military base to defend the site against the Jeraptha. That star
system was closer to Jeraptha territory before the recent wormhole shift, the
Thuranin would have fortified the area to protect their assets. Since they
stripped the site, I believe the Thuranin have continued using that system as a
secret military base. As I told you, the 
Flower's
 crappy Kristang
sensors are lucky to detect a star in a star system, our beat-up frigate has no
chance to find a military base that the Thuranin wish to keep secret."

"Great theory, Skippy. Doesn't explain why that
destroyer squadron had us surrounded as soon as we jumped in."

"Uh, that 
may
 have been partly my fault. A
teensy, infinitesimal bit my fault."

"What?" That surprised me. "You got
some 'splainin' to do, Lucy."

"Actually, Ricky Ricardo never said that on the
show, that is a myth. Similar to how people commonly say-"

"I never saw the show, Skippy, that was before my
time. It's a pop culture thing."

"Oh, got it. I'll make a note of it."

"And?"

"And, I said I'll make a note of it. Duh. Man,
your mind wanders sometimes."

I rolled my eyes. "I meant, 
and
, back to
how our getting ambushed may have been partly your fault. Damn, Skippy, we were
talking about that, like, five seconds ago, how could you forget in that short
a time?"

"Five meatsack seconds, dumdum. For me, your
species could have gone from ignorant apes living in trees, to sentient beings
in the same time. I say could have, 'cause, you know, you are still ignorant
apes."

"Don't try changing the subject, Skippy."

"Damn, the monkey is onto me," he muttered.
"All right, I think that destroyer squadron was there for training or
something like that. Those destroyers, or some stealthed satellites, detected
the 
Flower
 jumping in, because a blind man could have seen that. The
Thuranin stayed quiet, probably wondering what the hell a Kristang frigate was
doing there. By itself, a Kristang ship could not have traveled all the way to
that star system, the Thuranin must have been very, very curious. After the 
Flower

jumped away, the Thuranin knew they hadn't been detected, and they figured the 
Flower

would be back, with more ships. That's when those destroyers got into position,
to establish a damping field that covered where the 
Flower
 was likely to
jump in. That also explains why their damping field wasn't originally tuned to
prevent a Thuranin ship from jumping away, they expected Kristang ships, not a
star carrier. Us jumping in must have surprised the hell out of them. That
surprise, their hesitation before returning the damping field, is how we got
away at first."

"Uh huh. Makes sense," I agreed. "Does
not explain how it is partly your fault."

"Damn. I was hoping you forgot about that by now.
Why don't you have your typical short attention span when I need it? Here it
is, Joe; I may have been showing off a little. I programmed our jump in to be
almost exactly where the 
Flower
 had jumped out. Serves me right for
caring about impressing a barrel of monkeys, why should I care what ignorant
apes think, right?"

Though he was certainly an arrogant shithead, he
didn't need to feel guilty about something that wasn't his fault. "So you
were a little more accurate than you needed to be, that didn't affect anything.
Even if you were off by a thousand kilometers, those destroyers would have
surrounded us. That was the best spot for us to jump into, right?"

"Um, no, and right there is the problem. That was
the best spot for the 
Flower
 to jump into, considering that ship's
crappy jump drive. The 
Dutchman
 could have jumped in much closer to the
Elder site. That is why I feel guilty, Joe. The Thuranin surrounded the place
they expected Kristang ships to jump in, and that's where I took us. If I'd
jumped us in closer to that moon, like I should have, we could have been on the
edge of the damping field, and could have gone much further with that first
jump away."

He sounded miserable. I understood how he felt. The
conversation had started with me feeling miserable and guilty, thinking I had
nearly gotten us all killed. "Crap, Skippy. You let me feel guilty all
this time, when it was your fault?"

"A teensy bit my fault, that's all!" His
voice sounded hurt.

"I'm sorry, Skippy. I guess I was kind of, uh,
kind of hoping that if those Thuranin had a way to track the 
Dutchman
,
we could do the same thing, and solve our problem of hunting down that surveyor
ship."

"They got lucky, Joe. There are no
shortcuts."

 

We continued racing along through empty space in our
dirty snowball, slowly tumbling at one rotation every forty six minutes. There
was no indication the relay station considered us a threat, even though their
long-range sensor grid had seen us two hours ago. We were an innocent,
uninteresting dirty snowball, no different from the billions of such objects
forming a loose cloud around the star system. We would not pass close enough to
the station to be in any way a threat. We hoped. All was going well until four
hours before the closest point of our flyby, when Skippy sounded an alarm.
"Gamma ray burst! Multiples! Seven, no, eight Kristang ships just jumped
in, they're sort of between us and the relay. Damn it! They are moving very
roughly parallel to us, unless they change course, we're going to pass
uncomfortably close through their formation, about a half hour after we fly by
the relay. Oh, this is bad. Crap!"

"They see us? They know we're here?" I asked
in a panic.

"Do they see this comet? Yes, certainly they do.
Do they know our dropship is under this ice? No way. Or, I don't think so.
Unlikely. Very unlikely."

"What the hell are they doing here?"

"Relay stations are common rendezvous points,
Joe, this is not entirely unexpected. Unfortunate, not unusual. They could be,
yes, they are, exchanging data, shhhhh, be quiet a minute, will you, I'm
listening to them." Skippy was silent a few minutes, so was I, although
Skippy wasn't holding his breath like I was. "Darn. Joe, we got a problem.
The good news is those ships are simply exchanging data and going to be on
their way, they're not aware of us and they're not looking for us. The bad news
is they are waiting for another ship to join them, and while they're waiting,
they will be engaged in a cross-decking operation. Exchanging supplies, and
crews, between ships. They will have crew outside the ships in suits, and
dropships flying around between ships, they will not want a ball of ice
creating a hazard by flying near them. It is possible they will hit us with a
maser, to knock us onto a different course, and so avoid their formation. I'm
sorry."

"Damn it! Uh, what can I do? Uh, hey, if you're
by yourself, you're small enough they won't see you, right?"

"Sure, I can make myself small as a tube of
lipstick, and I can become essentially invisible to sensors. Why?"

"Because," I said as I unstrapped him from
the seat, "you can flyby that relay station by yourself, you don't need
this dropship."

"Whoa! Wait just a minute, monkeybrain, you're
going to toss me out an airlock?"

"For real this time, and very gently. I'll give
you a little push, you float away and fly right by that relay. That way, if the
Kristang do hit this comet, you won't be affected."

"You will be affected, you ass!" He shouted.

"That's a risk. The Army did mention there might
be risks involved, when they gave me a rifle. I had to sign a form about
it."

"Yeah, risk of you shooting yourself in the foot,
you idiot. Joe, this is, and I'm adding emphasis here, a gargantuanly stupid
idea, even by monkey standards."

As I put on my spacesuit helmet, I responded "I
am open to other ideas, Skippy. Other ideas where you fly by the relay without
being detected, get the data we need, and are safely taken back aboard the 
Dutchman
.
You got anything like that?"

"No."

"Great, then we-"

"In this case, 'no' means, not yet! Damn, you
monkeys are impatient."

"Listen, Skippy, in meatsack time, you've had
only seconds to think up an alternative idea. In your time, what, you had,
what, years? If you haven't thought up something yet, you probably won't,
because there is no alternative. You'll be fine floating in space for a while
by yourself, I'll be fine here."

"Define 'fine' for me, in terms of you. If they
hit this iceball with a maser-"

"I'm a soldier, Skippy, the mission comes first,
Ok? There is one of me, and billions of monkeys, damn it, now you've got me
saying it, billions of humans on Earth. This mission has almost no margin for
error, you told me our only likely chance to track that surveyor ship is to
pull data off that relay. I need you to do that for me, and not to worry about
me. Can you do that?"

"I have to worry about you, Joe, you are a
particularly dumb monkey in an unforgiving universe. You clearly can't take
care of yourself. You're the monkey who says 'ooh, leopard has pretty spots, I
should touch it'."

"Skippy," I said as I stepped into the
airlock, "you get the data from that relay, and I promise you, I will
never try to pet a leopard. Deal?"

"I do not like this, Joe, I do not like this one
tiny bit."

"It's not like I'm jumping for joy about it
either, Skippy. Do we have a deal?"

There was a heartfelt sigh, then, "I suppose.
Damn, why can't you pick this time to come up with one of your crazy
ideas?"

"This isn't crazy enough for you?"

"I see your point. Let's get this over
with."

 

When the hole in the comet was covered over, it wasn't
filled in all the way, what they'd done was stretch a thin tarp across the top
of the hole, then sprayed water which quickly froze, to cover the tarp about a
meter thick. To make it look like the rest of the comet, they packed dirty snow
on top. From the outside, you couldn't tell there had ever been a hole. Getting
out of the airlock, I gently flew up to the bottom of the tarp, and used a
cutter on low, power to make a hole just big enough for me to fit through.
Skippy advised me so that we timed my cutting through into space, while that
side of the comet faced away from the relay station and the Kristang ships. I
stuck my head and shoulders out, and held Skippy up. "Which way?"

"Off to your left, give me a good push, or we
won't get far enough apart for it to matter. On three, Ok? Three, two, one,
now!"

Holding on with my feet wedged into the ice and with
my left hand, I threw Skippy as hard as I could with my right. He quickly
disappeared from view. "Was that good?"

"Too late now, anyway. Yes, that was a good push,
I will come another three thousand kilometers closer to the relay station. Stop
talking now, you have to go silent. I can talk to you, but you can't reply.
Good luck, Colonel Joe."

Good luck, Skippy, I mouthed silently. Before the
comet rotated so the hole was visible to the Kristang, I covered it again as
best I could by melting snow with the cutter and trying to pack it over the
opening. The best I could do was a half-assed job, I had to hope none of the
Kristang were bored enough to look closely at a ball of ice passing by in deep
space.

With the hole covered well enough, I went back into
the dropship, this time I left my helmet on. If the Kristang hit the comet with
a maser, I wanted to have a supply of oxygen, in case the dropship got a hole
poked in it. Also, I powered up the dropship's stealth field, setting it as
tight as possible around the hull. A tight stealth field drew extra power,
power I had plenty to spare as I didn't plan to run the engines. On its normal
setting, the stealth field would have extended partly outside the comet, and
the Kristang would have become suspicious why the comet had suddenly changed it
appearance.

The last thing I did was activate the dead man's
switch for the missile warhead strapped into the seat behind me. If things went
south, we could not risk the Kristang discovering a human, or human remains, in
a Thuranin dropship. Either I could let go of the switch, or, if I was already
dead or seriously injured, my hand would let go on its own, and I, the dropship
and comet would become a cloud of particles. Skippy would be safely away, not
that a mere missile warhead could hurt him. The 
Dutchman
 would
eventually pick him up, he would contact the ship, and Chang would continue the
mission.

That would not be my first choice, in case you were
wondering. There were many, many cheeseburgers I wanted to enjoy before I died.

Then, I waited.

It didn't take long. Skippy warned me. "Joe!
They're firing a maser at you!"

I closed my eyes and mentally prepared for searing
pain and death.

It didn't happen.

All I felt was the comet shaking slightly and moving
around. Jiggling, kind of. Gently vibrating.

"In case you're wondering why you are still
alive," Skippy said, "they're using a low-power maser. They are not
trying to blast the comet apart, that would create a bigger hazard for them, as
then they would have to keep track of many small objects, instead of one
medium-size one. The low-power maser is heating up one side of the comet,
boiling off ice, and that's making the comet change course. In case you were
wondering why I didn't mention this possibility before, I wasn't sure this is
what they would do for certain. Didn't want you to get your hopes up. Sometimes,
the Kristang like to use comets for target practice, and that would not have
been good for you. Nothing to worry about for now."

For now? Damn, it was driving me crazy that I couldn't
talk back to him. Trying to relax, I took in some deep breaths, as the comet
vibrated gently around me. Not too relaxed, I had to remind myself not to let
go of the dead man's switch by accident. The worst part, if that happened,
would not be me dying by accident. It would be Skippy concluding that, in the
end, I truly was a dumbass monkey.

Then the comet lurched to one side.

"Not to worry, Joe," Skippy called, "a
chunk of ice broke off, that's all. They've switched aim to boil that chunk of
ice to nothing, and, they're done. They're switching back to the comet. Uh,
hmm. Now this could become a problem. The comet is rotating so that the maser
will hit the hole in about twelve minutes. Voids in comets are not that
unusual, however, the hole we made is rather large, for the size of the comet.
And when the tarp is exposed, that will certainly look suspicious. Let me think
on this."

He added "And while I'm thinking, don't do
anything stupid like trying to use the dropship's engines or thrusters."
He added that, as my hand was poised on the controls to power up the engines. I
put my hand back in my lap.

"Think faster, Skippy," I said to myself.
Now that I wasn't expecting to die immediately in a sizzling maser cannon beam,
it would suck to die like this.

"Got it!" Skippy said excitedly. "Sort
of. I think. The good news is, this is going to be cool either way, because
I've never done this before. The bad news is, ah, it could be a spectacular
failure. Thus, guaranteed cool either way, huh? Coolest, of course, if you
survive. That goes without saying, right? Man, I wish you could see this, it is
majorly cool. To me. Maybe not to a monkey. Still, totally cool."

What was driving me crazy was not that I didn't know
what crazy thing he was trying, it was not being able to interrupt him rambling
on and on. The comet's vibration changed, I don't what was going on or how to
describe it, it simply felt different. Maybe like there were two sources of
vibration.

"It's working, Joe! I think. Hmm. Maybe, uh, yup,
yup, it's working. Sort of. Close enough, right? Heh, heh."

At the sound of 'heh heh', the hairs on the back of my
neck stood up. What the hell was he doing?

"In case you're wondering what I'm doing, it's
only one hundred percent, gold-plated, grade-A awesomeness, Joe! Although, when
you think about it, part of that expression doesn't make any sense. You're
trying to convince your audience that something is genuinely, indisputably
awesome, right? Then why would you brag about something being gold-
plated
?
Why not solid gold? Hmm, maybe I got the expression wrong? Cause you could
gold-plate a dog turd, and that's not awesome, that's just gold plating on a
dog turd, right? Anyway, what was I saying? Hmm, I forget, couldn't have been
too important. Oh, wait, I know, I was going to tell you the awesome thing I'm
doing! Solid gold awesome, let's get that straight, this is awesome goldness
all the way to the center, buddy-boy."

I could have prayed for death right then, if that
would get him to shut the hell up.

"Where was I," he continued, "oh, yeah,
explaining what I'm doing. Ha! Explaining high-order multidimensional physics
to a monkey, what am I thinking? I'll break it down for you Barney style. Joke
intended, thought that was pretty clever of me. Man, I never get tired of that
one. Only you, Joe, would combat an alien invasion in an ice cream truck. Not
even a nice ice cream truck. A crappy ice cream truck. So, here goes, this will
blow your tiny monkey mind. I'm warping spacetime, in a tiny, tiny area, to
make the comet spin just a bit differently than it was. Differently enough that
the maser beam will miss the hole we made. Cool, huh? Hell, you know what, I've
never warped spacetime in such a tiny local area, the math is completely
different, it's interesting. In fact, I don't think it's ever been done before.
I'm the first! Cool, huh-"

He rambled on and on like that a while, I'm not sure
how long, I stopped listening. Maybe he talked the whole twelve minutes, he
must have, he was talking when the twelve minutes passed. About what, I don't
remember. It didn't matter, it was good simply to hear his voice, to hear
someone talking to me, while my hands shook and I sat in the dropship, alone
with my fear. Being alone is bad. Being afraid is terrible. To be afraid, and
alone, is the worst, empty feeling.

"-you still listening, Joe? I think you're good, I
think you'll be safe. That maser should cut off in a couple minutes, the
Kristang are about satisfied they've pushed it safely out of the way."

The deadman switch was still tightly clutched in my
hand. Waiting out the time until the Kristang hopefully turned off their maser
beam, I held the switch in both hands, as insurance against one hand growing
tired. Finally, Skippy gave me the all-clear signal. "You're good, Joe!
Maser is off, the Kristang commander is happy the comet will miss their formation.
They are proceeding with the cross-decking operation. Wow, hmmm, they boiled
off more of the comet than I expected, more than was strictly necessary, it's a
good thing we didn't pick a smaller comet, or part of the dropship may be
exposed by now. You can turn off the stealth field to save power, Joe. Hey,
good thing they didn't need target practice to tune their masers, huh? That
would not have been good. Anywho, I'm going to stop talking in about eighteen
minutes, I'm approaching the relay station and I will need to concentrate, or
all this will be for nothing. In a couple hours, we will have drifted far
enough apart that I won't be able to talk to you. Until I have to go, here is a
medley of show tunes to keep you company. Oklahoma, where the wind comes sweeping
down the plain-"

Show tunes?! Freakin’ show tunes. Like, my
grandparents' show tunes. He sang one tune after another for the whole eighteen
minutes, then abruptly cut off without a good-bye. I didn't hear from him after
that, either we'd drifted too far away, or he downloaded a whole lot of data
from the relay, and was busy sorting through it. Carefully deactivating the
deadman switch, I put it away, and I also safed the missile warhead.

Fourteen hours later, the dropship's sensors picked up
a gamma ray burst, then seven others. The Kristang task force must have jumped
away. Good riddance to them.

Twenty six hours after I lost contact with Skippy, the
dropship console alerted me to a single nearby gamma ray burst, and the 
Dutchman

pinged me, one brief signal, and I pinged back a short 'Ping Skippy and pick
him up first' message. They must have been curious about why the comet wasn't
where it was supposed to be, and why Skippy wasn't with me.

Sixteen minutes later, another gamma ray burst, then
nothing. Silence.

Then I was alone for another nineteen hours. Nineteen
hours, not knowing what was going on, not knowing whether something bad had
happened to the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
. It could not possibly have taken
nineteen hours for them to contact, locate and pick up Skippy, so had something
happened to him? Had the Kristang ships somehow detected Skippy and intercepted
him? Had he been detected as he ransacked the databanks of the relay station?
No, if the ship had pinged Skippy and he hadn't responded, they would have
contacted me again right away. For some reason, they had contacted Skippy, then
whatever happened, they hadn't been able to pick me up.

Crap.

There weren't many good options for me. The dropship
could recycle oxygen for one person almost a month, and drinking water wasn't a
problem as long as I stretched out the supply to match the oxygen. Food was a
problem, I'd only brought along enough sludges for a week. What the hell was I
going to do? The navigation system told me the comet's new course was taking it
further away from the local star, and the comet's next closest approach to the
relay station would not be for over a thousand years. Projecting out ten
thousand years, the limit of the dropship computer's ability, the comet would
not get close enough to the star to boil off the remainder of the ice. The
dropship would remain hidden for at least another ten thousand years. Long
enough.

Poking around the dropship, I did not find a stash of
food that I didn't know about, other than a plastic bag, with one lonely
peanut, tucked into a pouch on the side of the copilot seat. Someone flying, or
training in, the dropship must have left it there. One peanut. I stared at that
peanut for a long time, before wedging the bag into a gap in the pilot console.
The only sludges I'd brought along were plain banana flavor, no one liked them
as they tasted bland and artificial, the only reason I'd brought them along was
to get rid of them. Now they were my only food supply. That was bad planning.
What the hell, right? I'd ration sludges to give the 
Dutchman
 maximum
time to come pick me up, then when the sludges ran out, I would eat that
peanut. The controls could be programmed to slowly decrease the oxygen supply,
I'd been assured that I would gradually fall asleep and it would be almost
painless.

Ha! My high school classmates had not voted me 'Most
likely to end up encased in a comet orbiting the outer reaches of an alien star
system', somehow they had missed that one. They hadn't voted me Class Clown or
anything cool like that, either.

Crap. Now that I thought about it, I'm sure that by
now, some joker had cut out a picture of Barney and pasted it over my photo in
our senior yearbook.

Like that mattered now.

Having nothing else to do, I set a timer for ten hours
until my next sludge, turned the lights down, and tried to get some sleep.

And, wouldn't you know it, just as I was drifting off
to sleep, the console alerted me to another gamma ray burst, and the 
Dutchman

pinged me with a brief signal. 'Taking you aboard shortly, ETA four minutes'.

I felt some jostling, then a hard bump, then a
shudder. Then, "Hey, Joe! Good to have you back!" Skippy shouted.
"After the ship recovered me, it had to jump away, it would have taken too
long to fly through normal space to pick you up, the ship would have been
exposed for too long. We waited until you got far away from the relay, before
we risked coming back. Hold tight, they're cutting a hole for you, should only
be a minute before you can come out."

"Thanks, Skippy, it's great to hear your voice
again. Were you successful? With the relay, I mean."

"We're in luck, Joe! Although, now that I think
about it, that expression can be rather ambiguous, isn't it? Luck can be good
or bad. No matter, in this case, our luck is good. Success, yes! Sort of. Come
aboard, and I'll give you a full briefing. You, uh, better shower first,
huh?"

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY NINE

 

Skippy barely waited for me to take my shirt off
before he began the briefing. "Here's what I found, Joe, not sure if in
the end it is good news or bad news-"

"I thought you wanted me to take a shower
first?"

"Please do, however, you really don't smell a
whole lot better after a shower, so there's no reason to wait. Unless you
prefer to wait."

"No," I said as I unlaced my boots, "go
ahead."

"My expectation, that the Fire Dragon clan would
have information about the surveyor ship's mission, was partly correct."

"Great!" Before I stepped, or to be
accurate, kneeled down in the shower, I pressed the button and checked the
water temperature, in case Skippy decided to play a practical joke on me and
make the water ice cold. "You know where the surveyor ship is, and where
it's going?"

"No, unfortunately, no, the Fire Dragons have no
information about the surveyor ship, or about the single destroyer that is
serving as escort."

"Then what could be the good news? You said two
of the Fire Dragons were going on the mission to Earth, and that the surveyor
ship had to pick them up somewhere."

"I did say that. Can you hear me, Joe?"

"Yeah, I can hear you just fine," I said,
with my head under the cascading water. The hot water washing days of grunge
off my skin felt great.

"Good. Yes, two Fire Dragon clan leaders are
going on the mission to Earth, they paid extra for the privilege, because they
do not trust the Thuranin. For very good reasons, based on a long history, the
Kristang do not trust the Thuranin. The Thuranin don't trust the Kristang, also
for very good reasons. The Thuranin enjoy insulting and humiliating the
Kristang every chance they get, which is why these two Fire Dragon leaders were
not instructed to rendezvous with the surveyor ship. They will instead be
picked up by a pair of tanker support ships. To travel aboard such low-status
ships is a deliberate, very grave insult, and the Kristang know it is an
insult. They also can't do anything about it."

"I feel terrible for them, we should send a harsh
note to the Thuranin. Where are they going to meet these tanker ships? And
when?"

"’Where’ is a question I do know the answer to,
and I've programmed a course into the navigation computer. When is the problem,
Joe. The Kristang are arriving at those tankers three days from now, we can't
get there so quickly."

"Crap. You know where those tankers are going,
though, right?"

"No, I do not. That is not the type of
information the Thuranin saw fit to provide to the Fire Dragon clan."

"Well, hell, Skippy," I hit the button to
shut off the water. Damn it, why did he talk to me so often when I was in the
shower? "This was all a waste of time, then? We're too late?" That
was a bitter pill to swallow, getting messages from that data relay had been
our only chance to intercept the surveyor ship before it reached Earth.
"Wait. There's always a chance something goes wrong, that the Kristang
could be late to the rendezvous?"

"I suppose so, you haven't heard-"

I clicked the button to open the intercom to the
bridge. "This is Bishop. Skippy programmed a new course into the nav
system, initiate jump as soon as possible."

"Aye, aye," Chang responded, without asking
questions.

"We can't waste any time getting there, Skippy.
Is there any way you can shorten the trip, do some magic with wormholes?"

"I already did, Joe, the course I programmed does
include one shortcut by manipulating a wormhole. You didn't-"

"There's got to be something we can do. Let me
think on-"

"Joe! If you will please shut the hell up for a
minute, you haven't heard the whole story."

"Oh. Sorry, Skippy, that was rude, me
interrupting you. Go ahead, please."

"Thank you. As I explained, these two support ships
are primarily tankers, they carry fuel that will be transferred to the
surveyor, before it breaks off from its escorts and begins its long solo
journey to Earth. The Kristang are going to meet those two tankers in an
uninhabited star system, where the tankers will be refueling by siphoning the
atmosphere of a gas giant. The tankers logically, and the Thuranin can be
ruthlessly logical, will not want to carry their fuel load further than they
have to. That tells me the tankers will meet the surveyor ship somewhere close
to where they tank up with fuel. Before you make a typically stupid comment,
about why I'm bothering to tell you this, I believe those tankers will take
several days to complete their fueling operation. We should be able to reach
that star system before those tankers depart."

"Skippy, that's fantastic!" Man, I didn't
know how much more I could take of hopefulness, sudden crushing despair and
back to hopefulness. "Why didn't you say that first?"

"I tried to, you big dope, only you kept flapping
your lips 'blah blah blah'. Damn, you flap your lips so hard sometimes, I think
you are going to take off like a bird."

"Sorry. Ok, so, we know where these tankers will
be, and we know they will be meeting the surveyor ship after they finish pumping
their tanks full at this gas station."

"It's a planet, Joe, not a gas station. The
operation to siphon the proper gases-"

"You know what I mean, Skippy."

"It's complicated, that's what I was going to
say. We still have the problem that we don't know where the tankers are going,
after they fuel up. And we have no way to follow them, without them knowing
they are being followed."

I finished buttoning a shirt, and pulled pants on.
"Don't worry about that, Skippy. While I was stuck inside that comet,
there was a lot of time to think. I have some ideas."

“You having an idea, that’s what scares me.”

 

The 
Flying Dutchman
 was jumping like clockwork,
on our way to the star system where the two Thuranin support ships should even
then be filling their tanks with fuel. According to Skippy, we should arrive
well before those ships were ready to depart for their rendezvous with the
surveyor. Everything was going great. Great, except that, we still did not have
a realistic plan for us to successfully attack the surveyor ship. Or, equally
as important, a way for us to attack, in a way that the Thuranin would think
the surveyor had been destroyed in an ordinary ship to ship action by a
Jeraptha force. Although, an idea was forming in my mind.

"Sir, we may be missing something," Smythe
said, while we were sitting in the galley, bouncing around ideas for attacking
the surveyor and its escort ships. "I read the after action report from
your first mission. The Kristang ships that were attached to the 
Dutchman
,
you decided to jump them into a gas giant planet," he looked around the
compartment and people nodded, "because you were concerned they would
eject drones that contain those ships' flight logs. A drone's logs would have
told the Kristang, or Thuranin, that a Kristang frigate and a Thuranin star
carrier had been taken over by a hostile force."

"Hey!" Skippy protested. "I wasn't
hostile. Perhaps I wasn't as polite as-"

"Skippy, that's not what he meant," I
suppressed a laugh.

"Oh. Understood. Hostile in this case means
taking over their ships and killing all of them. I guess that could be
considered hostile," Skippy grumbled. "In certain cultures."

Smythe nodded. "Right. Well, then, when we attack
these ships, assuming by that time we have some plan to destroy them, during
the attack, those ships will eject stealth drones. Those drones may tell the
Thuranin that their ships were attacked by one ship, and they might even be
able to determine that one ship is a former Thuranin ship."

"It's possible," Skippy admitted.
"During a fight, if our stealth field is damaged, our disguise as a
Jeraptha ship won't hold.”

"That's the problem, sir," Smythe concluded,
"we have to both destroy those ships, and do it in a way that the Thuranin
think it was an ordinary Jeraptha raid. Those drones will blow our cover story."

"Yeah, Joe," Skippy, said, excited.
"That's a good point. That is a very good point. You got an answer for
that, smart guy?"

"Sure, Skippy, you're going to take care of that
problem for us."

"Oh, I am? And how am I going to do that? Maybe
you weren't paying attention, so I'll summarize the problem for you," he
said, almost gleefully. "Starships carry drones which contain the ship's
flight recorder data. When a ship is destroyed, or seriously damaged, one or
many of those drones are ejected. They are tiny, and they are stealthed. Our
sensor field will not be able to detect all the drones, and that, Joey my boy,
is the problem; the Thuranin will eventually send a ship to find out what
happened to their precious surveyor and its escorts. I am hoping, of course, to
fool their sensors into thinking our ship is a Jeraptha cruiser, but that is not
guaranteed to work."

"Not a problem, Skippy. You can handle that
easily."

"Hmm. Since I left my magic unicorn back on
Paradise or somewhere, how am I supposed to find an unknown number of stealthed
drones, smart guy?"

"Simple, Skippy. By asking them to tell us where
they are."

There was a pause before Skippy spoke again, maybe
while he tried to figure out what my idea was. "Perhaps I need to explain
the concept of 'stealth' to you again, Joe."

"No, I understa-"

Adams took in a sharp breath. "Sir, I might know
what you're thinking."

"Oh, 
this
 is going to be good,"
Skippy laughed. "Go ahead, Sergeant Adams, enlighten me, please."

She looked at me, and I nodded, so she leaned forward
to speak. "Skippster-"

"Skippster?" He asked, surprised.

"Skippy, then," Adams said with a wink.
"These drones are stealthed, to prevent an enemy locating them, but they
will respond to a signal, the correct coded signal, from a Thuranin ship,
correct?"

"Yeah, duh, they wouldn't be much good otherwise.
Again, the problem is, oh, shit."

I laughed. "You get it now, Skippy?"

He gave another heartfelt sigh. "When I load a
virus into the Thuranin computer, to make the ship drop off a drone before it
jumps, with that drone containing their rendezvous coordinates, I am also
supposed to download the drone retrieval codes, right?"

"Uh huh," I said, "you got it. Then
we'll jump to wherever those ships went on their way to the rendezvous, you
send a signal for those drones to ping us their location."

"You can do that, Skippy?" Adams asked.

"That, yes, I can do that. Damn it, you monkeys
think you're so smart. Sergeant Adams, I thought I hated Colonel Joe the worst,
but you're moving up the list."

"I'm honored," Adams said mockingly.

"After I tell the drones to ping us their
location, we use them for target practice?" Skippy asked.

"No, no, I don't want to destroy them," I
said quickly.

"Huh. All right, apparently I'm still missing
something here," Skippy's voice had a convincing undertone of puzzlement.

"We're not going to destroy them," I explained,
"those drone aren’t going to blow our cover story. They’re going to 
sell

our cover story for us. After you locate and access them, you are going to
alter their flight logs, so all the drones contain data showing their ships
were attacked by a Jeraptha task force, whatever number and types of ships the
Jeraptha would most likely assign to such a mission-"

"Two light cruisers," Skippy stated.

"Then you'll tell those drones to go silent
again, until a real Thuranin ship comes looking for them. If that ever happens.
Whatever ship finds the drones will provide convincing data about that surveyor
ship being destroyed by the Jeraptha, and they will have no reason to suspect
humans were involved. Those drones will sell the story for us."

"Damn," Skippy grumbled unhappily.
"That actually is a fairly good plan. From a monkey, amazing. That plan is
ingeniously devious, and I'm saying that as a compliment. Joe, I'm telling you,
once you're done playing soldier, you have a bright career ahead of you as a
criminal mastermind. Or, you, know, politics."

"Skippy," I laughed, "I would never do
anything as sleazy as politics."

"How about crime?"

"Crime we can talk about later, I have plenty of
playing soldier to do first." That did get me thinking. When I signed up
for the UN ExFor, my commitment was open-ended, since we were at war. Now that
Earth was, as far as UNEF Command knew at the moment, at peace, I had no idea
how many more years I had until I could either leave the US Army, or re-up. My
promotion to colonel was temporary, and, everyone knew, BS. My promotion to
sergeant must have come with a commitment to some number of years, which I
hadn't thought to ask about at Camp Alpha. It hadn't seemed important at the
time, none of us expected to live long enough to care. Fighting aliens with our
old trusty M-4 rifles hadn't made us feel particularly hopeful about our life
expectancy.

"I have to admit," Skippy said, "this
barrel of monkeys has come up with some decent ideas."

"Thank you, Skippy," I said guardedly.
Knowing Skippy, he was going to add a snarky and insulting comment. He didn't
disappoint me.

"The reason I said 'decent' rather than 'good',
is because these ideas are fine in theory, with the tiny, tiny problem that we
do not actually have a practical way for me to, as you so ignorantly assumed,
hack into a Thuranin ship."

"What?" I asked in shock. "You took
over this ship like," I snapped my fingers, "that. In the blink of an
eye! How did you do that?"

"Uh huh, yup, excellent observation skills you
have there, Joe. I took over the 
Dutchman
 with my incredible
awesomeness. However, since you apparently weren't paying attention at the
time, the Thuranin brought the 
Flower
 into a docking pad, before I was
able to seize control of their crude computer and put those idiot cyborgs into
sleep mode. To do that, I had to be close, Joe, by close I mean within about ten
thousand kilometers. We got that close because the 
Flying
 
Dutchman

is a star carrier, that expected to be taking a Kristang frigate aboard. None
of the Thuranin ships in the surveyor task force will let an unknown ship come
that close to them."

"Well, hell, Skippy, you could have told us that
earlier, before we wasted all this time dreaming up impossible plans."

"But you were having so much fun, Joe, I didn't
want to spoil it for you."

"We're not here for fun, Skippy," I said
between gritted teeth. "We may be stupid monkeys to you, but the monkey
brains on this ship, and you are all we've got to come up with a plan to stop
that surveyor ship from destroying our home. You think this is funny-"

"Pathetic would be more accurate," he
mumbled.

"-but we do not. You're telling me it is
impossible for you to hack into these ships?"

"Again with you not paying attention, Joe. You
seem distracted. Are you hungry, or is this just you being perpetually horny so
you can't think straight? I didn't say it was not possible, I said it was not
easy. There is a huge difference between those."

"You really-" Fortunately, Skippy
interrupted me before I said something harsh.

"Let me explain it to you," he said.
"We know those two support ships will be tanking up from the second planet
in that system, a gas giant. We jump in behind the fourth planet, another gas
giant, we jump in on the far side so the planet will mask the gamma rays from our
entry. Then someone takes me on a stealth flyby close to one of those support
ships, and I can hack in."

"Oh, like flying by that relay station. That's a
great idea, Skippy. We do the flyby in a dropship again?"

"Nope, it's not going to be that easy, Joe. To
hack in while I'm flying by, I will need to be within about four thousand
kilometers at the closest approach. A dropship, even stealthed, would be
detected at that range. And the Thuranin wouldn't let a comet get within four
thousand kilometers of them, they'd either move it away or blast it to
pieces."

"No dropship? Then how are we supposed to fly
from one planet to another?"

"Well, heh, heh, you're not going to like this
idea."

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTY

 

He was right, I hated the idea. It was a terrible,
awful, stupid idea from Skippy. It was also the only idea we had, damn it. We
jumped in on the far side of a gas giant, a planet that was a quarter of the
way across the star system from the planet where the Thuranin support ships
were taking on fuel. With the 
Dutchman
 in stealth mode, we let our orbit
take us around the planet, and Skippy picked up transmissions between the two
support ships. The good news is those ships were alone, we had been afraid
they'd have a frigate or destroyer with them. The bad news is we arrived almost
too late, one ship had already half-filled its fuel tanks, and the other was
not far behind its sister ship. We had to move quickly.

Desai piloted the dropship, with Lieutenant Xi of the
Chinese Air Force as her copilot. I took Skippy with me, plus Giraud as my
backup. In what I thought was an interesting maneuver, Desai burned the
dropship's engines hard while we were on the far side of the gas giant, then
cut power back as we slingshotted around the planet and escaped from its
gravity well. After another three hours of relatively gentle thrust, we were moving
faster than a speeding bullet, on course to intercept the tanker ship as it
hung in low orbit around the second planet.

To remain undetected, we could not burn the engines
for deceleration until both tankers were on the other side of the gas giant,
which was complicated because while we were racing through interplanetary
space, the first tanker finished taking on fuel had moved away. We were cutting
this close, very close. There was only a twelve minute window fire the engines,
before the orbits of one or the other support ships brought them around into
view. Desai decelerated us to the proper speed in a high-G burn maneuver that
busted a blood vessel in my left eye and gave me a nosebleed, while those ships
were hidden by the planet, then she cut off the engines, and I attached my
helmet, stepped outside and gently pushed off to drift away.

Skippy's idea, that I didn't like at all, was for
someone to get into a Kristang spacesuit, with Skippy, and a jetpack. Skippy
was irritated that we called the thing a 'jetpack' instead of an Individual
Maneuvering Unit, his argument was that the thing technically did not have
jets. We ignored him. It was a jetpack. Jetpacks were cool, 'IMU' was not cool.
A stealthed suit, even with a jetpack, was small enough to fly past a lowly
tanker ship, as close as four thousand kilometers, without being detected. In
addition to the jetpack, my suit had a waist belt with an attachment point for
Skippy, and a portable stealth field generator.

The idea was for someone in a suit to take Skippy on a
flyby, using the jetpack to make small course corrections as needed. The suit
wearer and Skippy would then swing around the other side of the planet, fire
the jetpack to climb into a slightly higher orbit, where the dropship would be
to retrieve them eventually. That was the plan, anyway.

This idiotic plan was why I was hanging seemingly
motionless in space, with the target gas giant planet a basketball-sized orange
blob in front of me. With gentle puffs of thrusters, Desai moved the dropship
safely away from me, then she fired the engines to make the dropship swing much
wider around the planet.

"Captain Desai, can you hear me?" I asked.

"Loud and clear, Colonel," she replied.

"Skippy, we're communicating through the
wormhole?" We were still close enough to the dropship that it might be
able to pick up my faint transmission directly.

"Yes, affirmative. Wormhole is active and
operating nominally," Skippy reported. To allow us to talk to the
dropship, without the Thuranin detecting our transmissions, Skippy had done his
microwormhole trick again. One end of the wormhole was near the dropship and
moved with that spacecraft, the other end stayed a hundred fifty meters behind
Skippy. According to that super smart beer can, it was extremely unlikely the
Thuranin ships could detect either our very low-power transmissions, or the
faint radiation from the microwormhole. That was good, because small as one
person in a suit was, I was way too large to fit through that super tiny
wormhole.

"Great. To be safe, Desai, we don't transmit if
either of those Thuranin ships are line of sight to us."

"Understood, Colonel," she agreed.
"Cutting thrust in 3, 2, 1 now. The first Thuranin ship should be coming
around the planet in two minutes, forty seconds."

The sensors built into my suit were not sensitive
enough to detect the ships yet, I had to take Desai's word for it. For the next
four and a half hours, I zoomed through empty space, the planet ahead of me
growing larger in my vision. Really, I was racing through space, only there was
no sensation of movement. No reference point except the giant planet. Skippy
and I chatted only occasionally, there wasn't much to talk about, other than
him instructing me to make tiny course corrections with the jetpack. After four
hours, he told me to activate the stealth field. The stealth unit required a
lot of power, and the generator we brought along could only supply power for a
couple hours. If all went well, a couple hours of stealth is all we would need.

If all went well.

"There's the first ship," Skippy announced.
"Right on time, it hasn't altered its orbit at all. Picking up ship to
ship transmissions, there are still only those two support ships in
system." We had been concerned there might be a warship escorting the
tankers, there didn't appear to be. This deep inside Thuranin territory, they
didn't see a need to escort such low-value ships.

A symbol for the first ship popped up on the inside of
my helmet faceplate, it was hugging the crescent of the planet, climbing away
slowly. We waited, and a symbol for the second ship popped up, it was still too
far away for me to see with the naked eye.

"Uh, oh," Skippy said, "we've got a problem.
A big, big problem."

"What is it? They detected us?"

"No, those crappy ships couldn't see us yet even
if we were lighting off fireworks out here. That second ship has been slower to
take on fuel because of a fault with its drogue, the unit at the bottom of the
fuel line it has lowered into the atmosphere. The fault has gotten worse, the
Thuranin have decided to retract the fuel line now, even though the ship's
tanks are only 82% full."

"Yeah, so?" I couldn't see how a flying gas
station was a problem for us.

"So, as soon as the drogue is clear of the
atmosphere, that ship will be changing course to join the other ship, climbing
out of orbit to jump distance. From its transmissions, I can predict the ship's
course, and it is a very big problem. The jetpack does not have enough fuel to
alter our course sufficiently that we can intercept that ship, not within four
thousand kilometers. We'll be too far away for me to hack into their
systems." He sounded genuinely sad. "I'm sorry, Joe, we're going to
miss this chance."

Crap. "This is our only chance. You sure where
that ship is going?"

"Yes, I am sure. The degree of uncertainty is not
great enough to make us intercepting that ship be a realistic possibility. It
is simple orbital mechanics, Joe, the jetpack does not contain enough
fuel."

"Force equals mass times acceleration?" I
asked.

"Um, yeah. I'm surprised you know-"

"Our problem right now isn't the acceleration
part, it's the mass, right?"

"Correct. Between me, you, the stealth field
generator, and the suit, the jetpack can't manage to provide the delta vee, the
change in velocity, for us to alter course sufficiently to come close to that
ship."

"The problem isn't you, either, it's me and this
suit."

"Mostly the suit, it has more than twice your
mass, Joe."

"Yeah, I can't take the suit off, so." I
reached down to unbuckle the fasteners that held my suit attached to the
jetpack.

"Joe, what are you doing? We need that jetpack,
you dumb monkey."

The jetpack came loose, I swung it around in front of
me, and held it steady with my legs.  Although in zero gravity is weighed
nothing, its substantial mass made it awkward to move around. "No, Skippy,

you
 need the jetpack." The stupid tool belt fastener was on the
side, not the front, and to undo it, I had to turn a knob to expose the button.
It was intended as a safety feature, I'm sure. Right then, it was a pain in the
ass. The tool belt finally came undone, and I pulled it tightly around the
jetpack, trying to keep the mass of Skippy and the stealth field generator centered.
"There, done." I let go of the jetpack with my legs, and it hung
right in front of me. "Tell me how to program a course into this
thing," I asked. The jetpack had a limited ability to be controlled
remotely from a module strapped to my left wrist.

"A course? Where?" Skippy sounded panicked.
"Back to the dropship?"

"No, Skippy," I explained patiently, "a
course to take you within four thousand kilometers of that tanker ship. You
said it, we're going to miss this chance if the jetpack has to move my mass.
This is our 
only
 chance, Skippy, our only chance to follow that ship to
the surveyor and destroy it. Our only chance to stop the Thuranin from reaching
my home planet and killing everyone. You are not going to miss that chance.
You're going to flyby that ship, you're going to hack into it, and you're going
to rendezvous with the dropship. Then you are going to do everything you can to
stop that surveyor ship."

"May I point out the glaringly obvious flaw in
your plan, you brainless monkey?"

"The fact that, without the jetpack, I'm going to
hit the atmosphere and burn up? Yeah, I know that, Skippy. I don't need to be
reminded of that, thank you very much."

"Shit. Joe, this is the second time you've
offered to sacrifice yourself for a noble cause-"

"The first time, I offered to sacrifice myself
for you, you little shithead."

"No cause could be more noble indeed."

"I offered to sacrifice myself for you, because
you're more valuable to the mission than I am. The 
Dutchman
 can go on
without me, Chang will make a fine commander. That surveyor ship can be stopped
without me, but it can't be stopped without you. Unless I'm missing something
here."

"No, astonishing as it may seem, your logic is
correct on this one. Damn, why does the monkey pick now to start using
logic?"

Despite the situation, he made me smile. "I love
you too, Skippy. You see an alternative? If we use the jetpack to rendezvous
with the dropship, by the time we get there, those two tankers will have jumped
away already, and we'll never find them. We will lose our one chance to
intercept that surveyor ship before it reaches Earth."

"It will take the tankers longer than you think
to reach a safe jump distance; this planet has a deep gravity well and they are
heavily loaded with fuel. You are correct, however, that this is the only
opportunity I see for being able to track these ships, and locate the
surveyor."

"Right," I breathed heavily, and
unintentionally fogged the faceplate for a second. "Is there any way to get
you to within four thousand kilometers of that ship, and also make sure I don't
hit the atmosphere? Can we split the difference, use the jetpack to move both
of us just enough so I miss the planet, then you fly off to intercept the
tanker?"

Skippy replied immediately, which was a bad sign. If
there was any chance for both of us to get out of this, he would have paused a
split second to run a couple million calculations. "Given the laws of
physics, which I can't screw with because those tankers would detect us, the
answer is, unfortunately, no. Joe, I'm sorry."

"You have nothing to be sorry about."

"I know that. 'Sorry' is something you monkeys
say as a social courtesy, whether you mean it or not. That custom seems
particularly stupid now."

"I appreciate the effort, Skippy. All right,
before I change my mind," I was deliberately not looking at the planet
ahead, "can you program the jetpack to fly you near that tanker, and I'll
engage it with this controller on my wrist?"

"I don't like this, Joe."

"I'm not jumping for joy about it either,
Skippy."

"Jetpack autonomous navigation system has been
programmed. Ready." He simulated taking a deep breath. "Are you sure
about this, Joe? It seems like such a waste."

"Skippy, I'm a soldier. I knew the risks coming
out here," my voice choked up a bit and I paused to swallow hard. "I
am not going to do nothing, and let that surveyor ship reach Earth. If you have
a better idea, I am all ears."

"Legitimately, no, no, I do not have any other
idea. Joe, there is a big difference, or there should be, between taking a risk
of dying, and taking an action that will result in certain death. Suicide does
not seem like something a soldier should do."

"Skippy, let's get real here, Ok? Yeah, in a way,
this is suicide, but really, it is only an issue of timing."

"You'll need to explain that one."

"This whole mission is suicide, I explained that
to everyone before we left Earth. Be straight with me, what are the odds we
humans can fly the 
Dutchman
 back to Earth by ourselves, after you leave
us for Collective heaven, or whatever the hell it is you're looking for?"

"Zero. Well, close enough to zero that your
chances of success are statistically insignificant. If you like, I can recite
the actual odds to a hundred decimal points, however, I expect you are
satisfied with 'meh' level math on this one."

"You got that right."

"Captain Desai has become a skilled starship
pilot, for, you know, a monkey, and she has trained other pilots well enough
for basic maneuvers. My calculation of your odds are no reflection on your
merry band of pirates, they are all dedicated, and, considering your species'
miserably low level of development, reasonably intelligent, no offense."

Inside my helmet, I had to smile and roll my eyes. In
one sentence, he insults us, and says he intended no offense. Sometimes I
wondered about his intelligence.

He continued. "The problem is the 
Flying
 
Dutchman

is an incredibly complex machine, and you humans have no idea how it works, not
really. If anything goes wrong, there is zero possibility you can fix it. Even
routine maintenance, which I have been doing for you using Thuranin robots, is
beyond your capabilities. The jump drive coils, for example, will drift out of
calibration with each time you jump. Without me fine-tuning the jump system, I
estimate the drive will become unusable within twenty, certainly twenty five
jumps. Jumps that you program will be so inaccurate, that you would have no
realistic chance to emerge near a wormhole. You'd have to jump as close as you
can, and fly through possibly half a lightyear of normal space to where a
wormhole is going to open. Frankly, you will run out of time, and food, before
you got home. Although, by that time, the jump drive would be so hopelessly
screwed up, you would not be able to jump at all, anyway."

"Is there any way you can load a submind into the
ship's computer, to take care of that maintenance stuff for us, after you
leave?"

"Ha, ha! No way, dude," Skippy laughed.
"The memory and processing power on the 
Dutchman
 are much too small
to contain a stable submind. It might work fine for a week, maybe two, then it
would start going funky on you, and without me to adjust it, the submind would
go senile and destroy the ship, So, no to that one. Before you ask, I could reload
the original Thuranin AI into the computer, modified to work with you instead
of wiping you out as soon as it became aware of your presence. That would not
help, the Thuranin's cyborg nature is integrated into their AIs to such an
extent that the AI cannot completely control the ship without them. That is
both because the Thuranin wish their minds to be as close as possible to an AI,
and because the Thuranin don't want an AI to be able to run the ship without
them, for security reasons. Especially because the Thuranin are quite rightly
concerned about the Maxohlx hacking into their systems. Many crucial control
and maintenance functions require cyborg participation, particularly in
controlling the robots. Humans can't fill the role of the Thuranin, and the
system's processing substrate lacks the capacity for me to replicate the cyborg
function inside it."

"Uh huh. Like I said before, this whole fool's
errand is a suicide mission, and me falling into this planet is only shortening
the trip somewhat for me."

"Unfortunately, I am forced to agree with your
point. I still do not like it. Joe, I need to understand something. You came
out here, knowing there is almost no possibility that you will ever return to
Earth. Why? Why did you come with me?"

"The short answer is that you had that wormhole
on a timer, and if we didn't come out here with you, there would be a whole lot
of pissed off lizards and little green men coming to Earth and asking awkward
questions. Beyond that, I came out here because I promised you that I would,
it's that simple. We have a bargain, you sure kept your end of it, this is my
end of the deal. We owe you, Skippy, we humans owe you more than we can ever
repay. Billions of humans are safe today, because of you. I understand you
don't belong with us, that you need to go home, or find answers about who you
are and where you came from.”

“Huh. You monkeys are more complicated than I
expected.”

“Yup, sure. Now, I'll give you a little push, so you
can drift away before I engage the jetpack?"

"Yes, it would be best if you were at least
eighty meters away before the jetpack fires thrusters."

There not being much left to say, I hugged the jetpack
tight to my chest, then pushed it away, trying not to make it wobble or spin.
My best effort left it turning ever so slowly, and left me spinning also. In a
maneuver I had practiced during training, I used my arms and legs to halt my
spin, so that Skippy and the jetpack were off to my left, and I was facing the
planet. Facing it, facing it right there. Damn, it looked close already.
"Hey, Skippy, should I go silent now? You're taking the microwormhole with
you, right?"

"You are now outside the stealth field, so, yes,
you should cease even your low-power transmissions. I will send a tight beam
message to you after I fly by the tanker; that should be within the next twenty
seven minutes. Soon after I fly past the tanker, it will go behind the horizon
of the planet, and we can communicate again. About forty minutes from
now."

I almost said 'goodbye' before catching myself at the
last moment. "Talk to you then, Skippy."

 

Man, that was a long forty minutes. On the display
inside the helmet faceplate, I was able to track the two tanker ships, they
were big, they were close and they weren't using stealth. In fact, their crews
were chatting and exchanging data almost continuously, it would have been
impossible not to notice them. Of Skippy and the dropship, hidden inside their
stealth fields, I saw and heard nothing. The planet kept growing larger until
it completely filled my view, in order to see the darkness of space I had to
turn my head.

And, darn it, the view was eerily beautiful. The
planet below me was mostly orange in color, when I left the dropship, from that
far away it had been an orange blob the size of a basketball. Now I was close
enough to see details, and it looked like a creamsicle; swirls of orange and
white, with less prominent streaks of purple, light browns and greens. The
planet didn’t have a big spot like Jupiter had, the cloud formations were more
subtle; great swaths of darker or lighter clouds stretching across an entire
hemisphere. Some of the clouds below were moving so fast I could see them
changing as I watched, it was hypnotic. Clouds swirling and spinning and
merging with each other and splitting apart. The speed at which the upper
atmosphere was moving must have been mind-boggling, this is one case when I
wished I could talk with Skippy, so he could bore me with sciency details.
Right then, it would have been good to talk with anyone. I’d never felt so
alone in my life; even when my dropship was frozen inside a comet I had at
least been in a familiar environment. Walls, floor, ceiling, seats, displays
and controls, and a breathable atmosphere. In my alien space suit, racing silently
just above the cloud tops, there was nothing familiar or comforting around me.
Nothing in sight was welcoming to warm-blooded, air-breathing creatures. The
view was beautiful in its cold, unending indifference to life.

 

Almost exactly at the thirty two minute mark, I
received a short "Mission successful" message from Skippy, then
nothing for another eight minutes. That eight minutes was awful, made worse
because my helmet display kept flashing a warning that I was going to hit the
planet's thick atmosphere in another thirty nine minutes, and I didn't know how
to turn the damned thing off. It was annoying.

Finally, another message from Skippy. "We did it,
Joe! Whenever that tanker jumps, it's going to leave behind drones like a trail
of breadcrumbs. And, major bonus, I was able to hack into their navigation
system, and download data. We now know where and when the tankers will
rendezvous with the surveyor ship! This mission is totally successful."

Except for the part about me falling into a planet.
"Excellent, Skippy, outstanding. I knew we could count on you. Sincerely,
thank you, from all of us."

"How are you doing?" He asked.

"Ok so far," I tried saying that as a joke.
The stupid display flashed another warning at me, a warning I didn't need.

“So far? Is this like the old joke about the guy who
falls off a building, and when he is halfway to the sidewalk below, he thinks
to himself ‘Ok so far’?”

“Something like that, yeah, Skippy.”

"Is there anything I can do, Joe?"

"I don't know, Skippy, is there anything you can
do?" Part of me was hoping he'd thought up a brilliant plan.

"About the major problem, no, I got nothing.
Sorry. Anything else I can do for you?"

"Mmm, keep talking to me? Hey, I know. DJ
Skippy-Skip-"

"And the Fresh Tunes, don't forget the Fresh Tunes.
I also go by Grandmaster Skip."

"Sure, you got it. Play some music for me,
please. You have music stored in your memory, right? Human music."

"Uh huh. All of it."

"
All
?"

"Yup. Well, all music that was stored in digital
format, while I was on Earth. What type of music do you want?"

It still surprised me how much data Skippy could
store. While we were on Earth, he'd told me that he had downloaded the entire
internet, including the darknet, I hadn't quite believed him.
"Anything."

"Bluegrass?"

"Anything but bluegrass."

My helmet speakers played some new age type soothing
instrumental thing, something I hadn't heard before. It was nice, and
appropriate.

"Thanks, Grandmaster Skip."

He didn't reply immediately, making my heart leap with
fear that something had gone wrong. "Joe," he finally said, "I
have been alive for a very, very long time, millions of years, I think. It just
occurred to me that, no matter how much longer I exist, in all the infinite
universes of probability, I will never talk to you again." He sounded
convincingly broken up about it, his voice was unsteady. "That makes me
very sad."

"You are an incredibly arrogant, irritating, smug
little shithead, Skippy, but I'm going to miss you too."

"Joe, what do you want to do with your
stuff?"

That seemed an odd question, Skippy may have been
nervous and searching for something to talk about. Before I left Earth, again,
I had updated my will through an Army lawyer; my parents would get everything,
including my back pay. The lawyer had explained that, in the extremely likely
event the 
Dutchman
 was never heard from again, I would be declared dead
after three years, and my Army pay would stop accruing. It sucked, but that was
the deal offered to everyone in the ExFor, I wouldn't get, and didn't request,
special treatment. "You mean my stuff aboard the 
Dutchman
? Lt
Colonel Chang will know what to do with it." There wasn't much anyway.
"Hey, promise me you won't give him a hard time?"

"Ugh, all right, damn, you hate me having any
fun. No worse than I give you."

"Fair enough."

He simulated a sigh. "Would you like me to keep
talking to you, or do you prefer silence at this time?"

"Talking, please. Hey, it won't be silent when I
hit the atmosphere, will it? The air particles, molecules, atoms, whatever,
will start bouncing off my helmet, and I'll hear that, I think."

"You will hear sound transmitted through the
outside of the helmet, yes. Very high pitched sound at first, because you are
moving at high supersonic speed. Then there will be a roaring sound. The visor
that sits atop your helmet will automatically drop down and cover the faceplate
to protect it, you won't have a real view then. The faceplate will switch to
showing images from the exterior cameras."

"I don't like that. Can you override the visor? I
want to see."

"Without the visor," Skippy warned,
"the faceplate will deteriorate quickly. It is made of a tough material so
it won't melt, but it will fog, and you will be blinded anyway."

"All right, fine. It's going to be quick, right?
When I hit the atmosphere, this suit won't last long." The cloud tops
below me looked close enough for me to reach out and touch them already.

"Although I want to tell you yes, the answer is
no. Kristang armor is rugged, it will last longer than you expect. Or, in this
case, I'm very sad to say, longer than you will want. The suit will hold
together long enough for you to get sufficiently deep in the atmosphere, that
the force of deceleration will crush you inside the suit. Other than your
bones, your soft tissue will become a liquefied, hmm, guess you don’t need to
hear about that. The good news is you should lose consciousness around twelve
gees."

Good news? In context, I guess it was good news.
"Wow, these suits are super tough. This material can take all that
heat?"

"No, no. The outer protective layers of the suit
will flake off, in a process called ablation. As the material heats up, it will
ablate away, exposing fresh layers below, this protects the integrity of the
suit, and the wearer, as long as possible. In combat, ablation technology
defends the wearer against directed-energy weapons such as masers and particle
beams. And-"

He went silent. For a moment, I panicked, thinking
we'd lost connection, except the music was still playing in my helmet speakers.
"And? Skippy? And?"

"Give me a minute, I'm working on an idea
here," he said excitedly. "Lots of numbers to crunch, need to run a
couple billion simulations though the model I've built."

"Okey dokey. I'll be right here, got plenty of
time and nothing to do." Nothing to do was true, the plenty of time part
was not.

"Yesssss!" He fairly shouted. "Got it.
Joe, while I don't want to get your hopes up too much, there is a possibility
that I can do something to help."

"I'm all ears, here, Skippy."

"Well, heh, heh, first thing is, you are very
much not going to like this-"

 

Skippy's idiotic plan, which I very much did not like,
involved him repositioning his end of the microwormhole so that it was behind
and slightly below me. He moved the other end of the wormhole directly in front,
and very close to, the dropship. Close enough that he instructed Desai to slide
the protective shield down over the composite cockpit windows, to protect the
occupants from radiation. Then, and here's the part I very much did not like,
he had Desai fire the dropship's maser through the wormhole, at me.

When Skippy told me his plan, my first thought was
that he was offering to kill me in one quick zap, so I wouldn't suffer from
being crushed inside my suit. But no, that would have been too easy. Instead,
the crazy little beer can planned to use pulses of maser light, at reduced
power, to boost my speed enough so I would miss the atmosphere. Maser photons
impacting my suit would flake off my suit's ablative layers, propelling me
forward. All this sciency BS was according to Skippy, who was, of course,
safely out of the maser's line of fire.

"What if I say no to this moronic plan of
yours?" I asked fearfully. Facing certain death, I wasn't sure whether
crashing into the atmosphere still wasn't preferable to getting cooked to a
crisp. When I hear 'maser' I think combination of 'laser' and 'microwave oven'.
Imagine a frozen burrito being zapped by a million watts, that's what ran
through my mind.

"Could you repeat that, Joe, I couldn't hear you?
You said 'go'?

"No! I said 'no'."

"Uh, huh, 'go' it is, got it. Captain Desai, fire
on my mark. Three, two, one, mark!"

"N- shit!" The faceplate of my helmet
automatically went opaque, and the visor slammed down. The suit went rigid,
something Skippy should have told me about. I waited for imminent and painful
death.

 

It didn't happen. Skippy's plan worked. Surprised the
hell out of me, that's for sure. Probably surprised him, too. He had me spin
around slowly, so the maser hit different parts of the suit, he had to look,
fire, look again. Then repeat. The first turkey shoot, as I called it, only
lasted eight minutes, because we couldn't have a maser hitting me while either
of the two Thuranin ships were above the horizon. It almost didn't work, eight
minutes of being propelled by maser only boosted my speed enough to delay me
falling into the atmosphere. By the time the tanker ships went behind the curve
of the planet again, I was technically already in the atmosphere, and the
wormhole had started to suck in atmospheric particles and blast the dropship
with high-energy radiation. Inside my suit, there were occasional pinging
sounds, I thought that was the air screaming past me, Skippy said it was my
imagination. It sure sounded real to me.

My second cooking session lasted twenty two minutes,
and was less frightening because Skippy didn't have to rush the process, he
could let my suit cool and adjust between maser blasts.  The outer layer of the
suit was composed partly of nanoparticles that could move around somewhat to cover
exposed areas, sections of the suit that the maser had burned away. After the
second session, before we had to stop because a tanker ship was about to rise
over the horizon, Skippy declared that I was safe, that my orbital path was now
good enough to keep me from plunging to my death for an hour, at least. Plenty
of time for the Thuranin ships to climb out of the planet's gravity well and
jump away.

Skippy must have been using creative math in declaring
I was safe, for it still looked like I could reach out and touch the cloud tops,
they were that close. Unconsciously, I was holding my breath, afraid that my
chest heaving up and down would knock me out of orbit. "You sure I'm good
here, Skippy?" I asked in a fearful whisper. Right then, I was more frightened
than I had been when I had thought death was certain. Life, the possibility
that I might go on living, there just beyond my grasp, I was terrified of
having that chance snatched away from me by the cruel math of orbital
mechanics.

"Uh huh," Skippy replied, "I'm sure.
Math don't lie, bro. Tell you what, though, how about you don't move a muscle,
stay perfectly still. And try not to breathe too hard, Ok?"

"Why?"

"Well, heh, heh, the maser really cooked your
suit, and patches of it are thin as tissue paper right now. I wouldn't worry
about it."

"Of course 
you
 don't need to worry about
it!"

"Hmm. I see your point. Still, there is no point
to you worrying, you can't do anything about it. When the dropship gets there,
Captain Desai will open the airlock door and fly the dropship to take you
aboard, without you having to move in any way. Once the airlock is closed and
repressurized, you can move about all you wish."

"How long will that be?"

"Well, certainly not more than one hour,
Joe."

"Why's that?"

"Because we can't risk hitting you with the maser
again, and if those two tankers haven't jumped away within an hour, you're
going to fall into the atmosphere, and this time there will be nothing I can do
about it."

"Oh, great."

 

Ten minutes later, I heard a faint, high-pitched
whistling sound. Remembering Skippy's scoffing when I thought I'd heard
atmosphere screaming past me, I held my breath and tried to decide whether it
was my imagination or not. And if not my imagination, what was it? A static
hissing from my helmet speakers? "Skippy, am I hearing things again?
There's a whistling noise, right at the edge of my hearing."

"Wow, you can hear that, Joe? Your hearing is
impressive. That frequency is almost up in the dog hearing range."

"You know about it?" Damn that beer can.
"What is it? Can you turn it off? It is very distracting."

"No can do, sorry. I can't turn it off, because
it's a tiny air leak. Well, not so tiny as it was a few minutes ago."

"What? Crap, you knew about this? Why didn't you
tell me?"

"There was no reason to worry you about it. Not
yet, anyway."

"Skippy," I said, exasperated with him,
"my air supply is leaking out into space. I have a very good reason to be
worried."

"Worrying is not going to solve the problem,
Joe."

"What will solve the problem?"

"I am working on it. The suit has been instructed
to move nanoparticles to plug the leak. So far, it isn't working, the suit's
supply of nanoparticles has been severely depleted, and the remaining supply is
already being used to prevent the suit from springing other leaks. Probably
shouldn't have told you about that."

That was not good news at all. "Understood. I
have plenty of oxygen, right? Enough to keep me breathing, even with this, as
you say, tiny leak?"

"Ah, not so much, unfortunately. The suit mostly,
and efficiently, recycles oxygen. There is a small reserve oxygen bottle. That
bottle is inadequate, considering the leak."

I kept silent for a moment, listening hard. The sound
was not so high pitched now. The leak must have gotten bigger. "Where is
the leak? Can I put my hand over it, or something like that? I can't do
nothing, Skippy."

"The leak is near your waist, on the left side.
Do not move! Moving will only make the leak worse, and cause other leaks."

"Great. Wonderful. What 
can
 I do?"

"Try to breathe less?"

"Very funny."

"That wasn't a joke."

"Shit."

"Perhaps I should work on my humor, so you know
when I'm joking."

"Ya think?"

"Sorry," Skippy said, sounding genuinely
sorry.

A leak. How to stop a leak? If only this Kristang suit
came with something like a can of Fix-A-Flat. Although it did, in the form of
nanoparticles that could plug leaks, make minor repairs, reinforce thin areas,
and all kinds of useful things. Absent-mindedly, while feverishly trying to
think of a way to stop a leak, I turned my head and took a sip from the water
supply tube in the helmet. Dry. I'd sipped the last of the water an hour ago.
"Huh," I said. "Skippy, I may have an idea."

"An idea? You? This I have to hear."

"Would water plug the leak? It would freeze,
right, make a plug of ice to cover the hole."

"Ah, not exactly, the water would freeze and boil
at the same time, because of the combination of cold and zero pressure.
Besides, Joe, you drank all the water, you dumb monkey, there's none
left."

"There's no 
pure
 water left."

"Oh."

"You know what I'm thinking?" Down next to
my left leg was a pee bag, that we'd installed before I took my many-hours-long
space dive.

"Unfortunately, yuck, yes. I can puncture the bag
with nanoparticles."

"Do that. Ugh." I felt my leg growing wet.
Then the wetness moved up my hips.

"It's working, Joe!" Skippy said excitedly.
"It's boiling off slowly, which is not a problem, there's plenty more.
Good idea, Joe!"

"Yes! Outstanding. Uh, hey, Skippy, this little
incident, this can stay just between us, right? No need to tell anybody about
it."

"Yeah, like that's gonna happen," he
chuckled. "No way can I pass up a 
golden
 opportunity to 
leak

this info," he laughed gleefully.

"Crap. Can you hit me with the maser again?"

 

The whole time I was waiting, I was angrily urging the
two Thuranin ships to get off their asses and move away from the planet. What
the hell were they waiting for? Damn! It was like getting stuck on a two lane
road behind a school bus, and you can't pass. The damned thing stops at every
freakin' mailbox, and you have to sit there watching the flashing lights, and
you wish the driver would just move faster, or take a turn, or pull over so you
can pass. You're stuck behind the school bus, and it's crawling along, and it
ever so slowly grinds to a stop at a driveway, and one kid is waiting there
with his mommy, and the kid slouches up the steps, and walks slowly back to a
seat, with his mommy waving idiotically to him the whole way he meanders down
the aisle of the bus, and then when you think the stupid kid has finally sat
down and the bus can move again, the school bus driver decides to chat with the
mommy, and you're tempted to lean on your car horn because you want that bus to
just GET THE HELL OUT OF YOUR WAY ALREADY!!

That ever happen to you?

I pictured the tanker crews climbing their ships out
to jump distance, and then deciding a celebration was in order, or something
broke on their stupid ships, and they were fiddling around trying to fix it,
while I slowly but surely fell toward the clouds below me. Maybe the Thuranin
were having a cake and ice cream, and singing songs or some nonsense like that.
Skippy assured me the two tankers were moving at their best speed, and would
jump as soon as possible. The Thuranin, being cyborgs, didn't go much for
celebrations.

When they finally did jump away thirty four minutes
later, I almost shouted for joy. Mercifully, Desai put the pedal to the metal
on the dropship's engines to rescue me. Instead, I ordered Skippy to signal the

Dutchman
 to jump into orbit, and for Desai to come pick us up. The
dropship was suddenly close to us, Desai making no effort at stealth, she was
burning the engines at full power.

"Desai, take Skippy aboard first," I
ordered.

"Sir?" She asked, surprised. "Mr.
Skippy said your suit is in bad condition."

"That is true, it is also true that Skippy is
more important to the mission than I am. If the Thuranin come back or whatever,
I want him aboard first, in case you need to high-tail it out of here. That's
an order."

Over Skippy's protests, Giraud grappled the jetpack,
released Skippy, then took him aboard and let the jetpack drift away. The
dropship then flew over to me, and Desai slowly and carefully edged the
dropship sideways, until Giraud was able to very gently guide me into the
airlock door with his fingertips. "Got him," Giraud told Desai,
"closing the door now."

The airlock quickly filled with sweet, breathable air,
and as the inner door slid open, I reached up to take my helmet off.
"Desai, we shouldn't leave that jetpack floating around as evidence we
were here, can you blast it with a maser?"

"Oh, yes, sir, uh, there, done. It's a cloud of
vapor now."

"Great." Man, I was tired.  My hair was
plastered to my head with dried sweat, Giraud handed me a bottle of water and I
drank it eagerly.

Desai wrinkled her nose. "What's that
smell?"

"The suit got cooked a bit by the maser," I
explained.

"No," she shook her head, "it smells
like-"

"As a problem solver," Skippy laughed,
"Joe is 
Number
 
One
."

"Skippy-"

"When a problem needs to be solved, Joe doesn't
waste time trying to 
piss
 
up
 
a
 
rope
."

"All right, Skippy."

"Joe knows you can't put out a forest fire by 
peeing

on it, but you can-"

"Enough!" I shouted. "The maser busted
the, you know, bag," I explained, and pointed to the suit's left leg. It
sounded lame to me. Screw it.

"Yeah," Skippy snorted, "uh huh, that's
our story and we're sticking to it."

 "Desai," I said wearily, "I'm getting
out of this suit, then I'm going to towel off and change my clothes. Our signal
won't reach the 
Dutchman
 for another hour, anyway."

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTY ONE

 

While we waited for the 
Dutchman
 to arrive and
retrieve us, Skippy downloaded the data from the two drones the tanker had
unwittingly dropped off before it jumped. To our great relief, we'd been
successful, both drones indicated the tankers had jumped to a point consistent
with Skippy’s hacked data, about the location and time where the two tankers
planned to rendezvous with the surveyor ship, and a destroyer that would be
acting as escort. I was worried that the rendezvous 'location' would be only a
vague area of empty interstellar space, that the four ships of the surveyor
task force might jump into an area half the size of a solar system, and then
we'd have to try chasing them down one by one. Skippy assured us the Thuranin
were much too competitive for that kind of behavior, their navigators prided
themselves on accuracy in hitting targeted jump points, so we would be able to
count on them jumping into their designated points within eight thousand
kilometers, even the big clumsy tankers could be counted on to be accurate.
That was good news.

In the bad news department, Skippy explained that
Thuranin practice for a task force rendezvous, even deep inside Thuranin
territory, was for a warship to jump in to the rendezvous point first, so we
could count on having to deal with the destroyer before the softer targets.
That ruined my hope of us blasting the vulnerable tankers, then the surveyor,
and then firing at the destroyer a few times to make it look good, before we
jumped safely away. However it was we dealt with the surveyor task force, we
needed to kill or disable a Thuranin destroyer first. How the hell we were
going to do that, in our rebuilt star carrier, was a damned good question.

I had an idea, the unformed kernel of an idea, I
needed to think more on it before mentioning it to anyone, especially Skippy.
The last thing I wanted was to give that arrogant little beer can even more
reason to be smug, by shooting down a plan I hadn't thought all the way
through. I needed time to think.

And I needed to get out of my sweat and other fluid soaked
clothes, and I needed a shower. Seriously.

 

When the 
Dutchman
 jumped into orbit, it still
took the dropship forty minutes to match speed and course rendezvous with her.
I gave Simms, as the duty officer on the bridge, an order to jump the star
carrier as soon as our dropship was secured in the landing bay. With the jump
successful, I let Simms know I'd be on the bridge soon, and brought Skippy with
me to my cabin, sitting him on a shelf while I got in the shower. As the hot
water of the shower cascaded over me, washing away the grime from my spacedive,
I relaxed and was able to think clearly. Out of the shower, I toweled off and
sat on the bed a minute before putting on a fresh uniform. "Skippy, that
didn't go exactly as planned, but we did accomplish the mission. Your maser
idea was a stroke of genius, thank you for that."

"No problem, Joe. If you're not here, who will
amuse me with monkey-brained ideas?"

"Yeah, speaking of monkey-brained ideas, you know
where each of those four ships are going to jump into, right, pretty precisely?
And you know when, also?"

"Yup. I told you that. You said 'mission
accomplished', I do not think that is entirely accurate. We only accomplished
the first, less important part of the mission. We know where those ships will be
meeting, and when. We still have to attack those ships, and we do not have a
realistic plan, hell, any plan, for doing that."

"Not a problem. I got that covered."

"Not a problem, he says?" Skippy sounded
skeptical.

"Skippy, while I was space diving by myself, I
did some thinking."

"You? Thinking? I find that hard to believe, but,
sure, what the hell, surprise me."

"I came up with a plan for us to destroy all four
of those ships. Or at least three of them, one of the tankers may get away.
That shouldn't be a problem. Letting one tanker get away, if it thinks we're a
Jeraptha cruiser, might actually be useful to us."

"Hmm, a monkey plan. Does this involve, let me
guess, magic bananas?"

"Nope. No bananas at all."

"Damn, Joe, what fun is that?"

"More fun than no plan at all, which is what we
have right now. Unless you have some super genius idea of your own, with your
ginormous brain?"

"No, I told you, I don't see any way the 
Flying

Dutchman
 can be successful in combat with a destroyer. Or the surveyor.
I don't even see how we could survive combat."

"Easy, Skippy, we will survive, and be
successful, because we're not going to risk the 
Dutchman
 in
combat."

Silence, then, "Can I assume you do not plan to
simply ask the Thuranin to surrender? Because no way would the Thuranin be
intimidated by this bucket, we would need a much meaner looking ship. This is
why gangsters never drive a minivan, Joe. I mean, come on, how intimidated
would you be by a guy driving a minivan with one of those stupid 'Baby on
board' signs, and sticky Cheerios all over the back seat?"

I had to laugh, imagining in my head a group of tough
gang bangers rolling through the 'hood in a beige minivan. "Nope, we are
not asking the Thuranin to surrender. I plan to hit those ships with missiles,
right as they come out of jump at the rendezvous. We will park missiles around
the enemy jump target points, with the missiles programmed to hit a ship as it
emerges from the wormhole. We'll hit the destroyer first, you told me ships
have to drop their stealth and defensive shields to go through a jump wormhole,
so that destroyer will be vulnerable as it emerges, right?"

"About that part of your plan, yeah, sure, you're
correct. Ships are at their most vulnerable coming out of a jump; they don't
have shields up and their sensor fields are scrambled by quantum fluctuations
of the wormhole, they're almost blind. So, yes, if you could predict exactly
where a ship will emerge from a jump, you can hit it precisely. Even a single
missile would destroy, or severely cripple a warship. Now, with those obvious
facts established, may I point out the annoying little detail of the fatal flaw
in your genius plan?" Skippy's voice had a mocking tone.

"You're going to anyway, right?"

"That's affirmative. We're supposed to target the
missiles toward the precise point where the Thuranin ships will emerge from
their jump, huh? The problem with that plan is we do not know exactly where the
Thuranin will jump in. The rendezvous coordinates for each ship are only
accurate to within a radius of eight thousand kilometers, because that is the
limit of accuracy of Thuranin jump navigation technology. Even if we used all
of our missiles to saturate the spherical area where a single ship is likely to
jump in, it will take any missile too long to detect the ship and close for
impact, the target area is too large. Assuming the Thuranin are accurate to
within eight thousand kilometers of the target, that is an enormous volume of
space to cover. The formula for the volume of a sphere is the radius cubed,
times, oh, wait, why am I trying to explain even simple math to you? Joe, a
radius of eight thousand kilometers leaves a sphere of over two 
trillion

cubic kilometers to search. While a missile is closing from that distance, the
ship would detect the threat and jump away, or raise shields. So, your plan
won't work, dumbass."

"Uh huh. What if we could shrink the area where a
ship is likely to jump in? Shrink it to, say, a hundred cubic kilometers, or
less?"

"Oh, sure, if you're asking for miracles. Why
don't you ask for fairy elves to fly in on a unicorn and take care of the
problem for us? That would be more realistic. Thanks a bunch for the vote of
confidence in my predictive abilities, but even my awesomely ginormous brain
power can't tell you where a ship is going to jump in, with that level of
accuracy. There are too many variables in a particular ship's jump drive at
that exact moment. The charge energy, how many coils are in use, the level of
calibration of how the entire system works together, the-"

"We get the idea, Skippy. A lot of variables,
yup. We're not going to guess, we're going to game the system by cheating. Beat
the house."

"Ooooh, you know me, Joey, I'm all about cheating
the laws of physics. However, give me a minute please, I want to get some
popcorn and an ice cold brewski. That way, I can sit back on the couch and
savor the moment, while you make a complete and total fool of yourself, with
whatever moronic so-called idea your monkey brain has dreamed up. Ok, I'm
ready, hit me with your best shot. Ha ha, this is going to be great!"

"You can warp spacetime, right? What you're going
to do for us is create an especially flat area of space time, inside the radius
where we know the ship will try to jump in. When that ship projects the far end
of its jump wormhole, that wormhole will be attracted to the flattest spot in
the target area by default. That’s because that spot requires the lowest energy
state to form a stable wormhole, or some other sciency physics BS like that you
told me once, when I was actually paying attention. We will be able to predict
almost exactly where a ship will jump in. Will that work?"

Skippy didn't answer. He didn't say anything at all.

"Skippy?" I asked. "Hey, are you
crunching numbers in there?"

Finally, he said simply "Holy shit."

"Yup."

"You are 
such
 an asshole! I hate
you." He genuinely sounded hurt. “Damn it!”

"Uh huh, got it. Is that a yes?"

However Skippy emulated a heartfelt sigh, it was
convincing. "Yes. Damn it. Ugh, I hate my life. A monkey has a good idea.
A freakin' monkey! Unbelievable! The universe is so unfair. Yes, it will work,
Joe, I can control where a ship jumps to within less than a hundred kilometers.
Nowhere near as accurate as I am with our own jumps, of course, there are too
many variables I can't analyze without being on the enemy ship before it jumps.
A hundred, even a thousand kilometers is close enough, our missiles will be
able to target and hit the enemy ship, before it can detect the missiles and
raise shields. Any ship jumping in will be a sitting duck. And, hey, in case
you think you're soooooo freakin' smart, I'm not going to create an especially
flat area of spacetime. What I'm going to do is create an area where the
flatness is negative."

Now he had me puzzled. "Negative flatness? Isn't
that a fancy way of saying it's curved in the other direction?"

"No. Ask one of your scientist monkeys to explain
it to you, if they can. Ha! For them, figuring out how the universe really
works will be simple, compared to explaining quantum topology to you."

 

He was entirely right about that, by the way. Because
we had time while we jumped toward the rendezvous point, I stopped by the
science lab to ask our team of human brainiacs how flatness could be negative,
my thought was that Skippy had been screwing with me. Damn, it was like sitting
next to a grandmother and asking to see pictures of her grandchildren. Which,
of course, no one would ever do, unless they were insane, because any
grandmother can inflict at least several hours of suffocating boredom while
talking about her grandchildren. After the third photo, and hearing about the
mundane accomplishments of little Maddy or Timmy, the unfortunate listener
starts wishing fondly for the sweet, sweet release of death. How come heart
attacks never happen when you need one? Anyway, our team of scientists were
more than happy to attempt explaining quantum topology to me, which should have
been my first warning sign. They were especially excited, because their
understanding of the subject had taken a great leap forward during their time aboard
the 
Dutchman
, and they couldn't wait to show off their newly acquired
insights. Somebody, they were certain, was getting a Nobel prize when we got
home. I didn't have the heart to remind them that getting home was still more
of an 'if' than a 'when'.

They tried. They really tried. The fourth time our resident
rocket scientist Dr. Friedlander attempted to explain why X is the cubed value
of the Mu function, I mentally gave up. Skippy mercifully took pity on me at
that point, for which I was forever grateful, he faked an emergency that
required me to rush away to the bridge. That was the last time I was going to
ask scientists to explain science to me. It was best for everyone involved.

 

We dropped off four missiles, surrounding the spot
where the Thuranin destroyer was supposed to emerge from its jump into the
rendezvous point, then backed the 
Dutchman
 away half a lightsecond and
engaged her stealth field and defensive shield. The missiles were hot,
programmed to target the wormhole, they would go to full acceleration as soon
as they detected a ship emerging, without waiting for a signal from the 
Dutchman
.
The missiles would operate in pairs; two would engage first, and if they scored
hits, the other two missiles would stand down, we didn't have missiles to
waste. If even one missile scored a direct hit on the destroyer, especially on
that ship's aft engineering section, the destroyer would be a sitting duck, to
be carved up by the 
Dutchman's
 comparatively weak maser cannons. All we
needed was one precise missile or maser strike on a reactor, or charged jump
drive coils, and the destroyer would become a cloud of particles. Our own drive
coils would be fully charged, so we could perform a microjump if the destroyer
was merely damaged and able to shoot back, or a major jump if the whole idea
somehow didn't work. Skippy did his sciency physics trick with creating an
especially flat spot in spacetime, in the exact center of our ring of missiles.
And then we waited.

And waited.

While, thanks to Skippy, we knew precisely 
where

the Thuranin destroyer was going to jump in, we knew 
when
 only within a
span of ten hours. To be safe, we arrived at the rendezvous point twenty six
hours early, that was as fast as we could get there, considering we were racing
two slow, lumbering tanker ships to the same place. We arrived, scanned the
whole region intensely until Skippy declared it was clear, then we parked our
missiles and positioned the 
Dutchman
 near where the destroyer was
supposed to jump in.

And waited. 

When the destroyer arrived, it was almost
anticlimactic for us humans, the whole thing happened faster than the blink of
an eye. Skippy assured us the whole thing was prodigiously, bodaciously awesome.
I had to take his word for it, until he replayed the sensor data on the display
for us in extra super-duper slow motion. The far end of the destroyer's jump
wormhole appeared first, appearing on the screen as gamma radiation in
spectacular false colors, Skippy took some artistic license with that for our
benefit. The wormhole was microscopic at first, Skippy drew 3D crosshairs in
the display, showing that the wormhole was less than thirty kilometers from the
target jump area, right where Skippy had created area of extra flat spacetime.
The next thing we noticed on the display was not the wormhole expanding, or the
nose of the destroyer emerging, it was two of our missiles accelerating hard,
straight for the wormhole. Skippy had programmed them to home in initially on
the gamma radiation of a wormhole opening, and the missiles did not hesitate at
all. By the time the wormhole had expanded, and the nose of the destroyer came
into view, our missiles had closed half the distance already, and had switched
their targeting to the hull of the destroyer.

Both missiles impacted the destroyer's aft section
almost simultaneously, when I later ran the display back and let it run forward
nanosecond by nanosecond, it still looked like they hit at the same time. One
missile hit a reactor, its warhead ripped through the reactor shielding like it
wasn't there, we could see fragments of the warhead coming out the other side
of the ship like a fountain, spewing white-hot particles out into space. That
dramatic view was brief, because the other missile scored a direct hit on a
cluster of jump drive coils, and released their stored energy in a catastrophic
flash. It happened so fast, even Skippy wasn't sure whether that missile's
warhead had time to explode on its own. Either way, the destroyer was instantly
vaporized, and Desai had to trigger a short jump to protect the 
Dutchman

from high-energy debris.

One down, three to go.

Our concern then was the Thuranin might somehow have
figured out our awesome new gimmick, and our incredible advantage would turn
into a one-trick pony. We recovered the two unused missiles quickly, they had
nicks and scratches from the exploding destroyer, Skippy assured us the
missiles would work just fine. Then we jumped over to where the surveyor ship
was supposed to jump in, and parked the extra missiles there. We had previously
parked missiles around the target jump points for the surveyor and the two
tankers, those three ships were scheduled to jump in anywhere from twenty
minutes to six hours after the destroyer. We didn't know the exact timing, all
we knew was the surveyor would jump in first.

We need to kill the surveyor ship, and at least one of
the tankers.

We almost did it.

The second ship to jump in was the surveyor, which in
the super slow motion replay looked a lot like the 
Flying
 
Dutchman

did now; a much-shortened star carrier, except the surveyor's aft section was noticeably
larger, with additional reactors and fuel tanks and other gear needed for
extreme long-range voyages. Replay was the only good look we got at the
surveyor, our missiles smoked it as soon as it emerged from its jump wormhole,
it made a considerably bigger explosion than the destroyer had. Big enough,
that the two extra missiles we had hanging around hanging around the target
jump point on standby got pelted with debris so badly, we had to order them to
self-destruct; taking them back aboard in their damaged condition would be much
too risky to the 
Dutchman
. Even a tiny breach in the containment system
of an atomic-compression warhead, could result in the atoms being no longer
quite so compressed.

Two down, two to go, and the remaining two were not
really warships. There were tight, self-conscious smiles and quickly-flashed
thumbs ups going around the bridge and CIC, people needing to release tension
and celebrate just a little, balanced with not wanting to jinx us by breaking
into cheers to early. The surveyor ship would not be going to Earth, or going
anywhere. Our mission was not yet complete, we needed to destroy at least one
of the tankers, to sell our cover story of the surveyor task force being
attacked by the Jeraptha. Without that, the Thuranin might become suspicious
about why the surveyor ship was prevented from going to Earth, and render our
entire plan useless.

It almost worked.

The tankers, despite traveling together, didn't jump
into the rendezvous together. Their crews, Skippy said, likely had a rivalry,
each crew wanting their ship to jump in closer to the target location, so each
ship had been meticulously careful about calibrating jump drives, and plotting
the far end of their wormholes. Because in this case, Skippy had to project two
spots of extra flat spacetime, and those spots were separated by one hundred
fifty thousand kilometers, that strained even his awesome abilities. I know his
abilities were awesome, because he told us, several times. At least.

One of the tanker crews finished screwing with their
jump drive slightly before the other ship, because one tanker jumped in before
the other one. On the display, we saw the familiar flare of gamma radiation as
the wormhole's far end opened, and the bulbous front end of the tanker emerged
from the wormhole.

The trouble started when our first missile impacted,
it hit the center of the tanker, not the aft end. Skippy later admitted he
should have programmed those missiles to anticipate the tankers coming through
the wormhole more ponderously than the surveyor and the destroyer had. Momentum
carried the ass end of the tanker forward through the wormhole, even as the
center of the ship broke apart. All this happened in a split second, we only
realized what happened later by examining playback of the sensor data. The
second, and last missile targeted at the first tanker, did manage to hit a
reactor on the aft end of the ship, and loss of reactor containment ruptured a
bank of charged jump drive coils, effectively vaporizing most of that ship.
Unfortunately, in order to hit the vital aft end of the ship, our second smart
missile had been forced to dive slightly into the wormhole itself. The missile
knew the configuration of the ship, saw how comparatively slowly it was
traveling through the wormhole, and the missile concluded its best chance of
hitting something vital was to curve around and dive into the wormhole itself.
In retrospect, I wish that missile had not been quite so overeager for an
outstanding rating on its next performance review, for its quick thinking
caused a big headache for us.

When our missile dove into the open wormhole, and
caused release of energy stored in the jump drive coils of the first tanker, it
also alerted the second tanker that something was wrong, very wrong, with its
sister ship. And that jumping to where the first ship went, might not be so
healthy for the second ship. Destruction of the jump drive coils caused
blowback through the near end of that ship's jump wormhole, a distinctive burst
of gamma radiation that was immediately noticed by the second tanker, and that
ship's navigation AI automatically aborted its own jump wormhole as it was
forming. The command crew of the second tanker wasted no time in redirecting
their jump drive to alternate coordinates, and jumped instead to an unknown
location.

"Uh oh," Skippy said, and that was my first
indication that anything was wrong. Destruction of the first tanker, like the
destroyer and surveyor before it, had happened too fast for the human eye to
follow. As far as I knew, everything was going great; unsuspecting enemy ships
were jumping in unawares, and almost instantly becoming fireballs. To my eye, I
couldn't have been more proud, I'd thought of an idea that destroyed the enemy,
and secured the future of Earth and humanity, without my own ship being placed
at risk at all. It was all good, I was wondering whether, against orders, Major
Simms had a bottle of champagne hidden away somewhere.

So great was my confidence, and complacency, that when
Skippy spoke, I figured it was to complain about a missile hitting a nanometer
away from where he'd planned, something only a super intelligent AI would care
about. "Uh oh? What's going wrong in the world of Skippy?" I asked
distractedly, my eyes glued to the display, anticipating the second tanker to
jump in any second. Jump in, and be obliterated.

"Something is wrong in the world of monkeys,
Colonel Joe. We have a potential problem."

A quick glance around the main display told me nothing
was wrong with the 
Dutchman's
 major systems. What the hell was Skippy
talking about? "A potential problem? You're not sure if it's a problem or
not?"

"Whether or not it is a problem, depends on your
mission parameters. Before you ask more stupid monkey-brained questions, I'll
lay out the issue for you; the second tanker is very likely not going to jump
into the rendezvous. The first tanker exploded while it was partly in the
wormhole, it hadn't fully cleared the event horizon. Backblast would have been
visible on the other end of the wormhole, no way could the second tanker have
missed that event."

"Oh, shit." Suddenly I didn't feel much like
drinking champagne.

"So?" Simms asked from the CIC. "We
were almost hoping one of the tankers would survive, to carry our cover story
back to the Thuranin?"

"Correct, Major," I responded, "the
problem here is that tanker won't be carrying our cover story of a Jeraptha
task force marauding through Thuranin territory, they're going to have a much
more interesting tale to tell; a ship gets hit while it is still inside a jump
wormhole. When they hear that, the Thuranin command is going to want to know
how an enemy could possibly know precisely where a ship will emerge from a
jump. And you can bet they'll investigate, every sentient species in the galaxy
will want to know how we pulled off that trick, even if they don't know who did
it yet. We don't want to leave any mystery behind, we need the destruction of
the surveyor and its escorts to be seen as a routine military action, something
that happens in frequently enough in war, and not anything worth anyone taking
a second look at. We need to find that second tanker. Skippy, you know where
the other end of that wormhole is, right? Plot a jump for those
coordinates."

"Course laid in, but I expect the second tanker
jumped away to an alternate destination already, as soon as it saw something
went wrong with its sister ship."

"Well, crap, Skippy, that's no good! We need to
get there before its outbound wormhole fades away, so we can track where it
jumped to. Pilot," I ordered to Desai, "jump as soon as you're
ready."

"Aye, Captain," Desai acknowledged.

 

We jumped to where the first tanker had tried to jump
in from, immediately engaged our stealth field, and began hammering away with
an active sensor search, to determine whether there were any ships in the area.
The stealth field wasn't on so other ships couldn't find us, we had it active
so other ships wouldn't see that the 
Dutchman
 was not, in fact, the
Jeraptha cruiser that we pretended to be. Sensor sweeps came back blank, the
area was empty. Skippy began scanning for a residual wormhole signature, and
found one quickly.

"Uh oh, I was worried about this. That tanker
jumped away like we thought, problem is, it used space combat protocol for the
jump. Remember how I told you ships can mess with their jump wormhole
signatures, make it harder for a pursuing ship to determine where they jumped
to? That's what that tanker did, as it went through the jump wormhole, it
dropped off quantum resonators, they're kind of like the crude flares your
military aircraft use to confuse heat-seeking missiles. These quantum resonator
devices disturb remnant waves of the outbound wormhole, that makes it difficult
to figure out the original configuration of the wormhole. Difficult even for
me."

"So, you can't do it?" I asked anxiously.
This was our first space battle where we were the pursuing ship, it required a
complete change in thinking.

"I can do it, I can't do it with the accuracy we
would prefer. Fortunately, the Thuranin are still under the mistaken impression
that quantum effects tend toward randomness, a common misconception of lesser
developed species. Because I know how the universe really works, I've been able
to map the pattern of the quantum resonators, unwind their effect from the
residual wormhole signature, and make a reasonably good guess as to where that
second tanker ship went. By reasonable, I mean I can tell where that ship
jumped to, within six hundred thousand kilometers."

"Great!" A glance at the man bridge display
told me we had plenty of charge for an immediate jump. "Program a jump for
us, and we will-"

"Wait! There is some extra good news, Colonel
Joe," Skippy said, "by some stroke of luck, or luck as you monkeys
think of it, that second tanker is the one I infected when we flew by on our
space dive, so it will be dropping off drones as it jumps. That makes it much
easier to follow. I'm pinging the drones now. And, yes! Got a response. I know
exactly where that ship is. Hmm, that's interesting, it's going to a secondary
rendezvous point, it is supposed to go to the secondary rendezvous if there is
trouble at the original rendezvous location. Oh, darn it, the tanker is
probably there already, and it's supposed to remain there almost six hours.
After that, the tanker's orders, if no other ships appear at the secondary
rendezvous, is for it to make its way back to its base star system, using a
random course. Damn it, we won't be able to use our neat trick of knowing
exactly where a ship will jump in."

"No," I said slowly, while thinking.
"But we do know, from the drone, pretty much exactly where that ship is
now, right?"

"Within ten, twelve thousand kilometers, most
likely, yes."

"Good, great. This is perfect. If that ship does
escape us, I don't want it to see us trying to use that trick again. Here's
what we're going to do; we jump into where that ship is, and launch missiles as
soon as we clear the wormhole. We can project a damping field, right, to
prevent that tanker from jumping away?"

"A weak damping field, yes, I had to disassemble
much of that unit's mechanism to repair the ship. Hmmm. You are proposing we
act like a real pirate ship?"

"Something like that, yeah."

"I love it! Jump course plotted and programmed
in, missiles are ready for launch."

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTY TWO

 

It almost worked like I hoped it would. Our jump to
the secondary rendezvous point was spot on, we emerged within seven thousand
kilometers from the tanker, better than Skippy hoped. Our missiles were away
even before we detected the tanker, unfortunately that ship was on a hair
trigger to jump and it fired up its jump drive as soon as it picked up the
gamma ray burst of our inbound jump. Its caught the edge of our damping field,
so it wasn't able to jump far, and Skippy quickly pinged the drones it dropped
off. We abandoned our two missiles. even though we were running low on
missiles, and jumped after the tanker within forty seconds of jumping in to the
secondary rendezvous.

This time, we skipped launching precious missiles
blind, and relied on our damping field. We emerged within four thousand
kilometers, the tanker tried to jump, but at that distance, it was trapped, an
attempted jump would have ripped apart its jump drive coils and effectively
destroyed the tanker for us. The tanker crew didn't have the magic of Skippy
working for them. With the tanker unable to jump away, it was a straight up
firefight, a tanker against a partly rebuilt star carrier.

"Weapons free," I ordered, and the CIC crew
responded by locking maser cannons on target and hammering away at the tanker's
defensive shields with sizzling beam hits. After only a couple seconds, the
tanker's shields and proximity sensors were so degraded, that we felt confident
enough to launch a pair of missiles. The tanker's point defense systems knocked
out one missile regardless, Skippy was impressed by the Thuranin's accuracy. No
matter, our second missile scored a direct hit on a reactor, and there was a
spectacular explosion. An explosion, right after the tanker launched a pair of
its own missiles at us, at extremely close range.

"Missiles inbound!" Chang warned from the
CIC.

My eyes flashed to the display, the enemy missiles
were so close, our own point defense systems had engaged. Before I could say
anything, Desai initiated a short jump away from the missiles and tanker
debris, on her own authority, under the rules for space combat maneuvers. We
emerged only eight hundred thousand kilometers away, safely out of missile
range for now. "Is there anything left of that ship?"

The CIC crew was silent for a moment. "It's hard
to tell, Captain, there is a big cloud from the fuel load that tanker was
carrying, its tanks ruptured. Until the cloud disperses, we can't see-"

"Oh, for crying out loud, you monkeys will take
forever," Skippy complained. "The answer is yes, Joe, the forward
section of that ship is still partly intact, and even I can't tell if anyone is
left alive in there. Their computer core is in that section, it would be wise
for us to not leave that behind."

"Agreed. Colonel Chang, one more missile, please,
let's clean up after ourselves. We shouldn't leave part of that ship drifting
around out here, it's a hazard to navigation."

"Certainly, sir," Chang replied with a tight
grin.

 

Having taken care of the four ships, we now needed to
clean up after the flight recorder drones they had ejected. Because three of
the ships had been hit with no warning, they had not been able to launch more
than a few drones. The last ship had apparently scattered drones along its
route; that ship’s captain must have known he was in serious trouble. I asked
Skippy to ping for a drone in the immediate area.

"Transmitting signal now,” Skippy reported. “The
signal, and the reply message, crawl along at the speed of light, don't expect
an instant response."

"We figured that, Skippy," I said. It still
felt odd to be waiting for something that traveled at the speed of light. On
any human scale, light speed was instantaneous.

"Got it!" Skippy shouted excitedly a few
seconds later. "We're too far away for me to hack directly into the drone.
Pilot, I loaded the coordinates into the nav system."

"Captain?" Desai asked.

"Take us there, pilot," I ordered.

Desai gave me a thumbs up and her fingers flew over
the controls. In the past, Skippy would have programmed the autopilot to take
us to the drone, and all Desai would have done was press a button to engage the
autopilot. Now, we monkeys were skilled enough to program the autopilot ourselves,
or fly the ship manually, as Desai was doing. Flying manually was good practice
for combat maneuvers. When we arrived close enough to the drone, Desai matched
course with it while Skippy did, whatever magical AI thing it was he did.

"Okeydokey. Done with that one, it's gone silent
again," Skippy reported.

"Great. Pilot, take us far enough away from the
drone for a safe jump."

"Whoa!" Skippy warned. "Another jump
already? What are you doing, monkey?"

"Jumping to the next set of coordinates, wherever
that ship dropped off a drone." It seemed fairly obvious to me.

"No, no, no, no, no, no. We're not done here,
dumdum. That was only one drone. Thuranin ships typically drop off drones in
sets of three, in case one or two drones are destroyed by whatever threat
caused the ship to eject drones."

"Damn it. Why didn't you tell us that? Hey, wait.
You sent out the signal, and only one drone pinged us its location."

"Duh. Each drone in a set of three has a
priority, the primary drone responds first. If the primary drone doesn't
respond, the secondary drone does, and so on. And after one drone responds, any
other drone in the set will no longer respond to the original retrieval signal,
they switch to another retrieval code."

"Great, fine. You have that other retrieval code,
right?"

"Nope, I didn't have time to download the full
set of codes. But any Thuranin ship that comes looking for the drones will have
the full set of codes."

"Damn it! We're screwed, you little shithead. Why
didn't you tell us that?" I was pissed, so were the crew in the CIC.
"Now we've got three drones out there, two of them contain their ship's
real flight logs, the Thuranin will know somebody screwed with the data in that
one drone. I know you are absent-minded sometimes, but this is inexcusable,
Skippy. You can't do-"

"Joey, as entertaining as this rant is, and I'm
sure you were winding up for a full-blown award winning diatribe aimed at me, please
cool your jets a minute. I didn't mention not having downloaded the other
codes, because I don't need a copy of them. The Thuranin are unimaginative and
predictable, I can figure out the what other codes must be, based on their
pattern. And, mmm, yes, I sent my test retrieval code, and another drone just
responded. We're good, pilot, the drone's location is in the nav system."

He was right, I was winding up for a good
old-fashioned rant about is forgetfulness, now I was pissed because I felt
cheated out of yelling at him. "You just love yanking my chain, don't you,
Skippy?"

"Hey, it gets back for all the times you make me
feel foolish. Payback is a bitch, buddy-boy. Anywho, we're good, we can find
the other drones and alter their flight logs also. Mission will soon be
accomplished, Joe! Too bad we don't have any fresh bananas to celebrate with."

 

 

Damn, locating all those drones was tedious, it took
us four full days for Skippy to be absolutely confident he had located all of
them.

"That's it, we're done," Skippy announced.
"The last drone now contains the altered version of the flight logs. I suggest
we skedaddle out of here, on the tiny chance a Thuranin ship happens to already
be searching for the surveyor and its escorts."

"Right, good idea. Pilot, set course for Earth,"
I announced happily.

"What?" Skippy exclaimed in surprise.
"Our mission isn't done, Joe. I know we-"

"
This
 SpecOps mission is over, Skippy.
UNEF Command sent us on this fool's errand, with the assumption that our home
planet was safe, because the wormhole was shut down. Now we know that shutting
down our local wormhole has only made Earth somewhat more safe than it was, not
entirely safe. UNEF, and our governments back home, need to know that. I report
to them, not to you. I want the fastest course back to Earth, that won't take
us through any dangerous areas."

"Whoa! You're making that decision without
checking with me first? Good luck getting the jump drive to remain calibrated
all the way back to Earth, without me."

"Do I command this ship or not, Skippy?"

"Depends-"

"Command must be an absolute, Skippy. This is a
simple yes, or no."

There was a pause. Longer than I was comfortable with.
"Yes," he said finally.

"Look, Skippy, I told you that we would help you
find your magic radio, and we will. Think about what we've seen out here. A
previously unknown Elder site that has a big mysterious hole scooped out of it.
An entire civilization that is extinct because their planet was moved by Elder
technology, after the Elders supposedly left this galaxy. An Elder AI that is
now a dead lump of metal. Comm nodes that don't connect to a network. A moon
that was completely vaporized. Is contacting the Collective still your biggest
priority, or should we try to get some answers, before you go knocking on the
Collective's door?"

He gave that heartfelt sigh that was by now familiar
to me. "You're right, you're right. I do have a lot to think about, and I
need more data. Besides, you monkeys have done a good job out here, and you all
deserve a big bunch of fresh bananas."

Damn it, even when he was being nice, he was an
asshole.

 

With the mission complete, and my duty shift on the
bridge over, I headed to the galley to get a cup of coffee. On the way, I asked
Skippy a question that had been bugging me for hours. "Hey, Skippy, why
didn't we use these super-duper quantum resonator things, when we were being
chased by a whole squadron of Thuranin destroyers? We have resonators aboard,
right?"

"We have resonators aboard, yes. We didn't deploy
them at the time, because they wouldn't have been much use, Joe. We were only
capable of microjumps then, with short jumps like that, both ends of the
wormhole are so close in real space, it is almost impossible to mask their
connection. Also, our jump drive was so badly out of calibration, each jump was
like ringing a bell that could be heard halfway across the galaxy. Trying to
mask that with quantum resonators would have been like throwing stones into the
ocean during a hurricane; sure, there are some extra ripples in the water,
they're not going to affect the waves."

"Oh."

"Duh. If I thought it would have helped, I would
have launched our quantum resonators, we have almost a hundred of them. Or we
had almost a hundred, I needed to use most of them to rebuild the ship. Now we
have three of them left."

"Three? Only three?"

"You wanted me to fix the ship or not?"

"Sorry, Skippy, I know you did an amazing,
incredible job, all by yourself."

"Hmmf," he snorted. "You have no idea
how amazing. I had to build machines to create exotic matter, that your monkey
brains can't even imagine. And I'm still waiting for that cake you promised me,
back when you were on Newark."

Crap. I'd forgotten. What did an AI want with a cake?
Was I supposed to make a cake out of metallic helium 3 for him? "Skippy,
I'm sorry," a word I was using too often, "I completely forgot your
cake, with all the crap that went on after we left Newark behind. I will bake a
very special cake for dinner, tonight. I'm headed to the galley right now,
anyway."

"Great! Everyone can enjoy cake, and sit around
talking about how awesome I am, even though you monkeys can't truly appreciate
the full gloriously awesome extent of my awesomeness. Hey, I just composed a
song you can sing in my honor. I call it 'Skippy the Magnificent'. It goes like
this 'Skippy, oh, Skippy, we monkeys are so unworthy, you are so awesome'-"

"Skippy! How about we monkeys enjoy eating cake,
while talking about how awesome it is that we've been able to resist the strong
urge to toss you out an airlock?"

"That'll work also."

 

We did have cake that night, I baked four cakes,
enough to feed everyone. Two chocolate, because chocolate was always a
favorite, a lemon cake, and a strawberry roll with whipped-cream icing. Damn,
that strawberry roll was gone so fast, I could have made a dozen of them and
still not had enough. And, yes, people did help me with the baking, I didn't
want to risk screwing the cakes up by myself. We gathered everyone in the
galley, except for the six people on duty in the bridge and CIC, the mood was
festive. Word that our mission had been successful, and more important, that we
were going home, had raced around the ship. I dropped a hint to Major Simms
that it would be more than Ok with me if she had violated regulations, and
smuggled some champagne or wine aboard. Champagne wasn't something I drank more
than two or three times in my life, and I wasn't sure that I liked it, but it
seemed appropriate for such an important celebration. Alcohol aboard ship was
against the rules, as if the rules mattered, in a stolen alien starship, two
thousand lightyears from Earth. After we 'd taken care of the last drone, and I
ordered us to head back to Earth, we jumped several times, and were now nearly
two lightyears away from the battle zone. Our jump drive coils were fully
charged, the stealth field was operating perfectly, we were in deep interstellar
space. Skippy said the odds of any ship stumbling across us out here were so
small, he didn't bother to give me an estimate. I felt safe, safe that letting
the crew have some fun, and blow off steam, was fully in order. We'd endured
harsh conditions on Newark, and almost from the moment we came back on board,
we'd been engaged full time in the effort to prevent the surveyor ship from
reaching Earth.

Simms shook her head, saying no, she hadn't smuggled
any alcohol aboard. That disappointed me, I'd been hoping our logistics officer
had thought of that, until I realized I was being very unfair to her. Simms had
a mountain of more important things on her mind in the scramble before we left
Earth, if I as the commander had wanted to skirt regulations, I should have
taken that upon myself.

Simms saw the flash of disappointment on my face, and
took pity on me. "I personally did not load any alcohol aboard with our
supply shipments, sir, however," she said with a wink, "it is
possible that people brought their own."

At that cue, the French team, who were responsible for
working in the galley that day, pulled a towel off a tub, and exposed four
bottles of champagne, chilling on a bed of ice. "Champagne, compliments of
France. Colonel, that is," Giraud said, "if this is acceptable aboard
a United Nations warship?"

"Captain," I replied, "as the United
Nations has never before had a warship, we can start our own traditions. I
believe that in the future, champagne should be 
mandatory
."

That remark drew cheers from the assembled group.
Giraud and Chang popped the corks on all four bottles, and the party started.
As there were no wine glasses aboard the ship, we made do with plastic cups. At
some point, people clamored for a speech, so I stood on a chair. "In case
anyone has not heard, we are going home!" Wild cheering ensued.
"Every one of us is coming home, we didn't lose a single person. Lest we
forget," I almost paused, because 'lest' is not a word I'd used before in
my life, that must be the champagne talking. "I'd like to take a moment to
review what we have accomplished out here." Mild groans from the crowd.
"I will be brief, I promise! First, we didn't blow up the ship. Yet."
That drew a laugh. "The Thuranin almost did that for us, but we survive
humanity's first space battle. We landed on an alien planet, the first alien
planet for most of us, and we survived there. We traveled across the surface of
that planet, part of the way on foot, and defeated an enemy who initially had
the advantage of air power and numbers." I didn't mention that both the
comm node and AI we found there were dead, this speech was not a time for
downers. "We destroyed a Kristang ship in orbit, without that ship even
knowing humans were in the star system. And then, when we thought we were
safely back aboard the 
Dutchman
 and all we had to do was look for
another comm node, we discovered that our home planet was in danger. And, I am
pleased, very pleased, to say, that threat to Earth has been eliminated,
without this ship being put at serious risk. I call that a success,
people!"

Thunderous applause, no doubt aided by the champagne
that was now making a second round, to refill people's cups.

"When we were on Newark, I promised Skippy a
cake. What he wants with a cake, I don't know. We have cake anyway, in honor of
Skippy's overall awesomely awesomeness. All the accomplishments I mentioned, we
could not have done without Skippy. We wouldn't even be breathing air aboard
this rebuilt ship without Skippy. So," I raised my plastic cup of
champagne, "a toast to Skippy, who is more incredibly awesome that money
brains can imagine."

There were shouts of 'hear hear' and 'hooah' and
'huzzah' and other words in various languages. "Skippy, would you like to
say anything?" I asked, knowing he was listening.

"Oh, uh, damn," Skippy said hesitantly,
"no, now that you ask, I can't think of anything to say, darn it. This is
embarrassing. I guess, um, hey, for a barrel of monkeys, you don't smell as
terrible as I expected?"

That got a big laugh from the crowd. "We love you
too, Skippy." I said.

"Oh, shut up," he grumbled. "Darn it, I
knew I should have posted that 'no monkeys' sign."

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTY THREE

 

The flight home was long and uneventful, unless you
count as 'eventful' our using a magic bean stalk to reactivate a wormhole that
was millions of years old, built by powerful beings who have since escaped the
physical realm. As soon as we went through the wormhole on the Earth side,
Skippy shut it down behind us again. Along the way, we didn't stop in any star
systems, and we didn't detect a single ship. Skippy said the chance of us
randomly encountering another ship, in the unimaginable vastness of the
galaxy's Orion Arm, was almost too small for even him to calculate. The closest
we came to another ship was detecting the extremely degraded remnants of an
outbound jump wormhole, nearly a day old according to Skippy. From the few
faint wisps of data the sensors could pick up, Skippy wasn't able to tell what
type of ship had jumped, or where it had gone. That was close enough for me. We
got the hell out of there as quickly as we could.

 

Just in case, we jumped to the orbit of Neptune, and
listened with passive sensors. Skippy originally had wanted to jump to a
different location, because he thought it would be immensely funny for the ship
to be circling Uranus. I vetoed that idea. If, by some incredibly bad luck,
there were Kristang ships at Earth, I wanted us to be fully ready to jump in
hot and hit them hard. There was no sign of any trouble in our home star
system, and the coded beacon on the UNEF guard channel was still faintly
beeping the ‘All Clear’ signal to us. Breathing a sigh of relief, I gave the
order to jump us into Earth orbit. We emerged somewhere over Australia, even the
most geographically challenged humans could recognize that continent’s
distinctive outline.

“Whoohoo! We’re here at last!” Skippy exulted. “Damn,
we’ve been away a long time, I need to check on my fantasy leagues.”

“Seriously, Skippy? That’s your first priority?” I
asked.

“Joe, what else am I going to do here in monkeyland?”

I guess he had a point. “Fine, great, do that. Can you
also-”

“Oh, for crying out loud! How the hell- what, how-”
Skippy sputtered to a stop, speechless. “Oh. My. GOD!” His voice thundered out
of the speaker so loud, my ears rang.

“What? What is it?” I snapped my fingers and glanced
at Chang, he knew exactly what I meant and he hit the battle stations alarm.
Desai turned halfway in her seat to look at me, one hand poised over the button
for an emergency jump away. “Skippy! What’s wrong?” I shouted. “Do we need to
jump away?”

“Huh? No, you moron. The ship is fine. Damn, I can’t
believe this. Un-be-LIE-va-ble! They broke it. They BROKE it! How in the hell
did a bunch of ignorant monkeys manage to do that?”

“Broke what?” I asked, and both Chang and Simms in the
CIC held up their hands, baffled at what could be wrong. They weren’t seeing
any threats on their sensors. “Skippy! Whatever it is, talk to me, please.”

“They broke it, Joe. They broke it,” he said slowly,
with great sadness.

I made a gesture of my hand across my throat, and
Chang cut off the 
Star
 
Trek
 battle stations alarm. “Broke what,
Skippy? Who broke what?”

“Me. Not 
me
, me. The submind that I left
behind.”

“You, you left a submind behind? When? Where?”

“The answer to ‘when’ is before we left Earth, you
dumdum, when the hell else would I have done it? And the ‘where’ isn’t a
physical ‘where’, I created an incredibly crude, dumbed-down sub-submind and
uploaded it to your internet. Now I look, and the thing is completely
corrupted! Gone! It’s gone! Oh, my beautiful little submind, I hardly got to
know you. And, damn it! It crashed less than two months after we left, I didn’t
even get halfway through a fantasy season. Shit! I’m looking through the server
logs now, it looks like it got piled on with so much worthless junk to process,
it wasn’t able to cope. And then one last video file overloaded it. Poor
thing.” His voice sounded genuinely sad. “How could this have happened? It makes
no sense. Because I knew it would be dealing with filthy monkeys, I
idiot-proofed the entire system.”

“It’s impossible to idiot-proof anything, Skippy,” I
explained, “because idiots are so darned clever. They will 
always
 find a
way to screw things up.”

“I swear,” he said with a good impression of speaking
through clenched teeth, “when I find the cat video that broke my poor little
submind-“

“It’s not the cat’s fault, Skippy.”

“You sure about that?”

“Absolutely. This is the internet you’re talking
about, right? Come on, the odds are it had to be a porn video.”

“Oh, huh,” he thought for a moment. “You’re probably
right. Damn. You know, with all the monkeys down there to mate with, why does
your species spend so much time playing with yourselves in secret?”

“Uh, well, Skippy, I would give you an answer, except,
you know, I don’t know anything about that sort of thing,” I stammered to
answer.  All eyes in the CIC were locked on me, some people with their
shoulders shaking because they were already chuckling.

“What? Joe, you were the Furtive Masturbation poster
boy back when-“

“That’s not funny, damn it.” It was my turn for
gritted teeth.

“Of course, I guess that’s better than you doing it in
public, I’m still not sure what your social customs are about that.”

I put my head in my hands and asked quietly. “Can we
please, 
please
, just contact UNEF?”

“Oh, sure, Joe,” Skippy said. “Why didn’t you ask me
before?”

“UNEF Command, this is the duty officer,” a harried
voice answered.

“UNEF Command, this is Colonel Bishop, aboard the 
Flying
Dutchman
. Can I speak with the officer in charge, please?”

“
Flying Dutchman
? Oh, thank God. We saw a
strange ship in orbit and thought it was- I’ll connect you to General Huang.
Hold, please.”

A moment later, a different voice spoke, with many
other voices in the background. “This is General Huang, am I speaking with
Colonel Bishop?”

“Yes, sir, General Huang. Sorry if we startled you, we
only just arrived in orbit. Everything is fine for now, sir.”

“Fine?” Huang asked gruffly. “Colonel Bishop, we’re
looking at a ship in orbit, and it does not appear to be the 
Flying Dutchman
.”

“Joe put the ship in the wash on the hot water cycle and
he shrunk it,” Skippy said, “I told him it was dry clean only, but did he
listen to me? Noooooo. Big stupidhead.”

“Sir,” I explained, “we ran into some trouble out
there, and the ship had to be rebuilt using materials at hand. We really need
to give you a full briefing.”

“The wormhole near us, it’s still shut down?” Huang
asked brusquely.

“Yes, sir, and it’s not on a countdown to reactivate
this time.”

We could hear sighs of relief on the other end.
“Excellent,” Huang said, this time he sounded almost happy. “Then we’re safe,
and we can take our time if we decide to send the ship out again.”

Chang, Simms and I shared a knowing glance. “Uh, yeah,
hey, you know,” I replied. “Not so much.”

 

 

 

THE END

 

Contact the author at
craigalanson@gmail.com