Table of Contents

 

CHAPTER ONE

CHAPTER TWO

CHAPTER THREE

CHAPTER FOUR

CHAPTER FIVE

CHAPTER SIX

CHAPTER SEVEN

CHAPTER EIGHT

CHAPTER NINE

CHAPTER TEN

CHAPTER ELEVEN

CHAPTER TWELVE

CHAPTER THIRTEEN

CHAPTER FOURTEEN

CHAPTER FIFTEEN

CHAPTER SIXTEEN

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN

CHAPTER NINETEEN

CHAPTER TWENTY

CHAPTER TWENTY ONE

CHAPTER TWENTY TWO

CHAPTER TWENTY
THREE

CHAPTER TWENTY
FOUR

CHAPTER TWENTY
FIVE

CHAPTER TWENTY SIX

CHAPTER TWENTY
SEVEN

CHAPTER TWENTY
EIGHT

CHAPTER TWENTY
NINE

CHAPTER THIRTY

CHAPTER THIRTY ONE

CHAPTER THIRTY TWO

CHAPTER THIRTY
THREE

CHAPTER THIRTY
FOUR

CHAPTER THIRTY
FIVE

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER ONE
I had to let Skippy’s shocking last statement
roll around in my brain for a moment before I could speak. “Perkins and her
team are 
not
 on Paradise?”

“Nope.” Skippy clarified unhelpfully.

“Crap. Dammit, that pilot, Eileen-”

“I
rene
,”
he corrected me.

“Irene, yeah. She didn’t like, take a wrong turn
or something?”

“Uh, no, Joe.”

“Well, I assume they didn’t win a fabulous vacation
cruise, so how the hell-”

“Joe, while playing Twenty Questions with you
would be immensely entertaining for me, we should jump away from here first.”

“Oh, yeah. Desai,” I checked the list on the
command chair’s armrest. Wherever we had to go to rescue Perkins, we first had
to stop by a gas giant planet to fill the 
Dutchman
’s
depleted fuel tanks. “Jump option Alpha.”

“Aye aye, Captain,” Desai replied and pressed a
button. The only change on the main bridge display was the faint dot of the
local star had disappeared, because we were now in interstellar space. If you
were ever looking for nowhere, we were smack in the middle of it.

“Ok, Skippy,” I took a deep breath and watched
Hans Chotek silently fuming at me. “You’d better just tell us where Perkins is
now, and what kind of trouble she’s gotten into this time.”

“We have plenty of time for that later, Joe. I
downloaded all the info to your tablets and laptops, you can read the whole
story in detail any time you like. Right now, we need to prepare for the
refueling operation. I suggest-”

“Uh huh, sure,” I cut off the beer can before he
could get into geeky technical details of the risky op to extract fuel. “How
about you give us the elevator version of the story?”

“Elevator version?” Skippy asked, puzzled, then
he got excited. “Ooooh, you mean like elevator music? I suppose I could put the
story into a musical format, like an epic opera. In fact, that is a 
great
 idea-”

“No, that is a 
terrible
 idea!” I waved my hands while seeing panicked faces in the
CIC. No one wanted to give Skippy an excuse to sing. “I meant, like an elevator
pitch, you know?” I had read that concept in one of the US Army PowerPoint
slides I was supposed to study for officer training. “Give us the thirty second
version of the story.”

“Oh,” the beer can’s hopes were crushed. “Oof,”
he sighed. “All right, 
fine
,” he said
with disgust to make clear it was anything but fine to him. “To make a long
story short, Perkins is-”

The lights went out.

All the lights, even the independently-powered
emergency lights. My stomach did flipflops as the artificial gravity cut out
completely, and it wasn’t the typical slow power-down of the gravity
generators, this was someone flipping a switch from 
On
 to 
Off
. So startling
and sudden was the loss of power that instead of frightened cries of alarm from
the crew, there was a brief moment of pure silence. Pure silence, like, no
sound. No gentle hissing of air through the vents. No beeping from control
panels. That was odd. What I picked up on immediately, what made my hair stand
on end, was the loss of the faint rumbling sound of the reactor. Our new
secondhand reactor that Skippy dug out of the junkyard in the Roach Motel had
a different and lower-pitched sound than the 
Dutchman
’s original reactors, and the new reactor had an
intermittent vibration that had scared the hell out of me and kept me awake at
night until I got used to it. Now, I was holding my breath hoping that scary
vibration would be felt through my boots on the deck. Nothing.

What scared me the most, made my insides freeze
into a solid lump, was the absolute silence from Skippy.

The silence was broken by everyone talking at
once, although because the Merry Band of Pirates are highly disciplined bad-ass
Special Operations troops, no one panicked. “Everyone, quiet please,” I asked
in what was supposed to be a calm voice that came out as a broken squeak.
“Skippy? Skippy, are you there?”

Oh thank 
GOD
!
His beer can lit up with a soft blue glow, bright enough to illuminate the
bridge, Combat Information Center and the passageway outside. “I’m here, Joe.
Sorry about not responding immediately. I was superduper ultra busy.” Other
lights began to show, as people pulled out their zPhones and activated the
flashlight feature.

“Everything is Ok with you, right? You didn’t go
on holiday again?”

“Huh? Nope. No, I’m fine. I was just super extra
awesomely busy trying to determine why 
all

the power cut out. The emergency power should have come on,” the red backup
lighting snapped on as he spoke. “Like I said, emergency power is restored.
Temporarily. Just local, independent systems are active, even the backup power
is offline. Whew! Reactor containment was iffy there for a moment, kind of
skating on the edge of disaster. I got it now. Damn, that was too close.”

“What was too close? What went wrong?”

“Still investigating that, Joe, lots of numbers
to crunch. I suggest you get the crew preparing to get into spacesuits, escape
pods, dropships, anything with an independent source of power. Although, damn
it! The dropships are now powering down one by one. And the escape pods. Crap! 
Everything
 is shutting down!”

“Skippy, we need
some answers pronto. Can you-”

“Joe, I am extremely busy right now. Like, with
the superconducting magnets of the reactor containment system failing, I am the
only thing preventing hot plasma from exploding and destroying the ship. Talk
to you later,” he ended the conversation abruptly.

Not knowing what had gone wrong was intensely
frustrating, but there wasn’t anything I could do about it until Skippy
analyzed the problem. If he couldn’t contain the radioactive plasma in the main
reactor, we would not have any problems to analyze, so I left him alone to do
whatever he was doing. I jammed a thumb down on the button to open the 
Dutchman
’s 1MC intercom system, which
fortunately broadcast to people’s zPhones through Skippy. “All hands, this is
the captain. We have suffered,” what? I paused like an idiot. “An apparent
engineering casualty,” I used the most vague term I could think of. At least
the crew would be assured the problem was not caused by enemy action.

Unless, crap, it 
was
 caused by some kind of enemy action, Skippy had not ruled that
out.

“Until main power is restored, please,” I
stuttered to a halt again. Please what? Abandon ship? That wasn’t the answer,
especially with our dropships falling offline. “Get access to spacesuits, and
secure extra powerpacks, as many as you can get.” While the suits were in
storage, they were plugged into main power, to keep their internal powercells
topped off and ready for immediate use. Main power was dead and dropships were
powering down. Dropships in docking bays were plugged into umbilical power
cables, even the ready bird we kept on Zulu alert. If whatever caused the
problem with main power also traveled up the umbilical cables, then our
spacesuits might be affected also. “Report in to the CIC when you have a
functioning suit available. You do not need to put the suit on, or use
supplemental oxygen at this time,” I added to avoid people using up their
suit’s breathable air supply. The internal volume of the 
Dutchman
’s hull contained enough air for almost a full day, though
the air in populated compartments was going to get warm and stale quickly. I
needed to consider dispersing people out of the CIC and galley and into cargo
holds, any place with a large volume of air. Maybe if we kept all the internal
doors open, that might slow the process of carbon dioxide building up in
isolated areas of the ship? Uh, maybe instead of guessing, I should ask someone
who knows actual sciency stuff?

“Colonel,” Gunnery Sergeant Adams called out
while floating beside my chair, holding a spacesuit she had pulled from a
locker we installed in the CIC. Her face was lit up by the zPhone she was
holding between two fingers, and because I am a moron, the first thought that
flashed across my brain was something like ‘wow, she has really beautiful skin’
followed by me noticing for the first time how thick her eyelashes were. In my
defense, she was floating right in front of my face and the zPhone was glowing
from close to her right ear, so my eyes concentrated on what I could see in the
overall dim lighting.

Either that or I’m just a complete idiot. Let’s
go with the first explanation.

“Uh, what?” I shook my head to bring my brain
back into focus.

“This suit is dead,” she pointed to the status
display on the spacesuit’s left wrist. The display was blank, not even the
usual faint blue Standby indicator was glowing.

“Oh, crap. Uh, wait,” I had a thought as my
brain kicked into gear. “Disconnect the powercell, and swap in one of the spare
powercells, one that wasn’t plugged in for charging.” We had more powercells
than charging stations board the ship, so we had a schedule for rotating
powercells to keep all of them fully charged. That is a task the crew performed
even though Skippy had disdainfully insisted his bots could handle the job more
efficiently. Efficiency is not the point, I had told him, the crew needed to
take responsibility for assuring the readiness of critical equipment, if we
could handle the job without screwing something up. That is why we maintained
our personal weapons as best we could, and why we participated in regular maintenance
chores for the combots, dropships and any other piece of equipment we could
touch without risk of us blowing up the ship. Even if all pilots could do was
hold tools for the bots working on dropships, the pilots would see what the
bots were doing, and have at least some feeling of control over how their ships
were maintained.

One of the CIC crew heard me, reached into the
locker for a spare powercell, and gently tossed it toward Adams. In the zero
Gee, the powercell floated off course so I had to snatch it out of the air and
hand it to Adams, taking the suit’s dead powercell from her.

Powercells were designed to be swapped by
someone wearing a suit, so ironically, it was more awkward to take one out and
snap in a new one from outside the suit. The suit kept moving around until I
saw the frustrated look on her face turning into a flash of anger. With her
floating, she couldn’t get any leverage on the handle to swing the powercell
into place, so I clamped the suit’s legs between my thighs and hugged the suit’s
torso to my chest to hold it steady for her. She acknowledged my action with a
silent nod, and her grimace turned to a smile as I heard the click of the
powercell’s cover snapping into place. Instantly, the wrist display lit up. “Yes!”
Her face glowed, and not just from the zPhone. “How did you know, Sir?” She
looked at me with a combination of awe and suspicion.

“I didn’t 
know
,
I was guessing,” I admitted. “When I heard the dropships were powering down, I
wondered if whatever the fault is, travels along the umbilical cables.”

“And suits in storage are plugged into charging
stations,” she flashed a wry smile. “Good thinking, Sir. That’s why you get the
big bucks.”

“Ah, I got lucky. Simms!” I called through the
glass separating the bridge from the CIC. “Notify the crew not to trust
anything that was plugged in, and to replace their suit powercells with cells
that were in storage.”

“Yes, Colonel,” Simms acknowledged and spoke
into her zPhone. Although the ship’s comm system was down, Skippy could relay
zPhone signals throughout the ship, until the zPhone powercells died.

“I wonder,” Adams frowned, holding the dead
powercell. “I’d like to try connecting this dead one to a powercell that is
active.”

“Ok,” I asked slowly, “why?”

“I’d like to know whether this powercell is
really dead, or if it got drained by running the charging system backwards or
something,” she explained. “If it accepts a charge, it only got drained, and
the powercell itself is Ok.”

“Good idea, do that.”

Simms waved for my attention. “All stations
acknowledge, Colonel. We have confirmation that swapping powercells solves the
suit problem,” she added to confirm our success was not a fluke. “Lieutenant
Williams wants to try swapping powercells in a combot?”

“Tell him permission granted, but let’s hold
experiments to a minimum for now, we don’t want to risk our supply of good
powercells. Adams?”

“No joy, Sir,” she shook her head slowly.
“Dammit, now the good powercell I connected to the dead one is also offline.
Whatever the problem is, it must get transmitted through hard connections.”

I snapped my fingers. “My tablet is in my
office, sitting on a charging matt,” I stated, though it occurred to me that
with the loss of artificial gravity, the tablet might now be floating out in
the passageway. “Check if my tablet is dead, Gunny.”

“Aye aye, Sir,” Adams said as she propelled
herself out the door. Because my tiny office was just around a corner, she
returned in seconds, wiping her face. Why was her face wet, and what was the
dark stain on her uniform-Oh, yeah.

“Sorry about the coffee, Sergeant,” I remembered
right then that I had left a half cup of coffee on my desk, that liquid must
have dispersed into the air when the gravity cut off. That was my fault, I had
been thinking like my office was on firm ground somewhere, rather than on a
ship. Would a Marine make such a bone-headed mistake? Maybe not, most Marines I
knew tended to think in terms of being based aboard a ship. “Any luck?”

“No,” she replied while gently pushing my tablet
to me.

I caught it and verified the thing was indeed
totally dead. “Crap. Dammit, I’ve had this thing since before Columbus Day!”

“Same tablet?” She asked in surprise. “That’s
old for a tablet.”

“It runs Skippy’s software, so it never needs
updating,” I said defensively. “And I never had to think about a problem with
it until now.” Crap. I bought that tablet before my old battalion got shipped
out to Nigeria, I used it there sometimes to videochat with my folks back home,
although the Wi-Fi connection out in the bush there had mostly been on the
tin-cans-and-string level. I was proud when I bought that tablet, and it had
been to the jungle and the stars and back with me. Was it now only a
paperweight?

Oh, hell, without artificial gravity it wasn’t
even any kind of weight.

“Major Simms, warn people not to trust 
anything
 connected to ship’s power,
whether it’s a hard connection or not.” Simms passed the word, and within a
minute, she reported that everyone aboard the ship had a spacesuit ready for
use. Everyone except me, because I had been sitting uselessly strapped into the
command chair.

“Here you go, Sir,” Adams came to my rescue,
pulling a spacesuit over to me and tying it to the back of the chair. “It’s
ready to go,” she pointed to the blue glowing Standby indicator, “there are
three spare good powercells attached to the waist belt.”

“Thank you, Gunny,” I caught the eyeroll from
her when I used the term ‘Gunny’ for her new rank. Adams didn’t think her field
promotion was legit, especially when the promotion was granted by a sergeant
masquerading as a colonel. I agreed with her about that second part, but she
deserved to be a gunnery sergeant. If she was serving with the Marine Corps on
Earth she almost certainly would have been promoted to an E-7 pay grade by now.
So far, I had not insisted that Adams wear the patch with a second rocker to
indicate her new status, but the ship’s crew log had her listed as Gunnery
Sergeant, and I heard an increasing number of people calling her ‘Gunny’
whether she liked it or not. “Should we-”

“Hey, Joe,” Skippy’s avatar popped to life in
mid-air between bridge and CIC.

“Skippy! Are the reactors good?”

“I vented the plasma from the main reactor,
there’s some minor damage to the hull from the emergency venting, nothing to
worry about. Joe, we are in big F-ing trouble, I’m not going to sugar-coat it.
Main and backup reactors are offline and I can’t restart them, because there is
no power to the superconducting containment system. Almost every
power-generation or power-storage system aboard the ship is dead, anything that
was connected to the ship at the time of the incident. Even the jump drive
capacitors are completely drained and in cold shutdown, totally dead.”

“Yeah, we found that ourselves. Powercells that
weren’t plugged in-”

“Those backup powercells won’t last forever, and
they will start going dead soon, as the problem migrates into power storage
devices that don’t have a hard connection.”

“Skippy, what the hell is going on?” If one of
our ancient secondhand reactors shut down, I could understand that, because we
picked them up from a junkyard. But the problem was not confined only to
equipment we found in the junkyard.

“Joe, have you ever bought a used car, and the dealership
supposedly cleaned the thing, but you find the previous owner’s stuff under a
seat?”

“My cousin bought a truck and a couple months
later, he found panties under the passenger seat. 
Two
 pairs. One pair I can understand, but, damn, two? That guy must
have gotten luck-” I caught Adams giving me a look. “Must have, uh, neglected
to check under the seats before he sold that truck,” I finished, my face
growing beet red.

“That was a heartwarming and insightful story,
Joe. 
Really
 super helpful.” Skippy
mocked me. “My point was, when you get something pre-owned, sometimes you get
more than you bargained for.”

“Huh? Like what? We haven’t bought any-oh,
crap. The junkyard? We brought something back from the Roach Motel?” I guessed.

“Unfortunately, yes, Joe. It now appears the
Guardians tagged wreckage in the junkyard with tracers, to monitor the status
of ships they had broken up.”

“Tracers? Like a GPS tag? Why didn’t you know
about these tags? And how could something like that shut down-”

  “No, dumdum, not like a GPS tag. The
devices, actually they are not ‘devices’ at all because they have no physical presence.
They are, 
ugh
,” he huffed with ultimate
disgust. “How do I explain this to a monkey? To 
you
? It’s uh, uh, it’s an energy virus. Like a virus, but it
affects systems which generate and store energy, rather than affecting matter
like a living cell.”

“Ok,” I pondered that concept. “Is it anything
like the nanovirus the Thuranin use to take control of Kristang ships?”

“No, it’s nothing crude like that. The Thuranin
technology, which they stole and barely understand by the way, is still based
on manipulating matter. This virus is 
energy
,
Joe, pure energy.”

“So, it’s like a computer virus?” I guessed.

“Close enough. Except without a computer to
infect, or any sort of software code. Joe, this virus feeds on and attacks
patterns of energy.”

“It changes their pattern?”

“Again, close enough. Let me give you an
example, um, Ok. The powercell in that spacesuit was fully charged, and all
that energy did 
not
 get drained in an
instant,” he declared with a snap of his avatar’s fingers. The finger-snapping
made a sound, which I think was something new, I don’t remember Skippy doing
that before. “The energy is still in that powercell, but it is now locked away in
a pattern that can’t be accessed. It’s like the energy is tangled up in knots,
and can’t flow out the power connections. Ugh,” he sighed in his best drama
queen fashion, shrugging his shoulders and throwing up his hands. “Damn, I am
getting dumber just trying to explain this to you.”

“Uh huh. Can you untangle the knots, or
whatever?”

“No.”

“Oh, dammit! Fine, uh, what do we have for a
backup energy source?”

“Well, Joe, I was going to switch from the
reactors to the beryllium sphere, but it’s cracked,” his voice dripped with
sarcasm. “Were you not listening to me at all? We can’t generate or store
energy 
at all
, dumdum.”

“Give me some good news, Skippy. Come on, throw
me a bone, will ya?”

“The good news is, if I can purge the system of
the energy virus, the powercells should recharge without any lasting effects. I
think. I’ve never encountered an energy virus so all I have to go on is theory.
Truthfully, I’m kind of making shit up as I go.”

 “OK,” I ran a hand through my hair and
took a deep breath while I processed the latest disaster that had struck the
Merry Band of Pirates. “You got any ideas how to purge this energy virus from
the ship?”

“Yup,” Skippy replied with bubbly good cheer.
“And you’ll like this one, because it is easy-peasy.”

“Would you care to enlighten me, Oh Great One?”

“It’s simple, Joe, and there is only one way to
do it. I need to reboot the ship. Turn the ship off, drain all power
completely, then I’ll restart it using my own internal power. Hopefully. I’m
not making any promises.”

“Turn the ship 
off
?” I could not imagine the entire length of the 
Flying Dutchman
, even our much-rebuilt
Frankenship, going dark. “Like, off? For how long?”

“My best guess is eighty six hours. Could be a
bit longer.”

“Eighty six-Holy 
crap
, Skippy. We’re supposed to live in spacesuits that whole
time?”

“What? No, dumdum, didn’t you listen?” He
scoffed. “I said, turn off the ship. That means 
everything
, anything that generates, uses or stores power. That
includes spacesuits. And dropships, in case you were hoping to take shelter in
those until it is safe to come back aboard the 
Dutchman
.”

“How the, how the
hell are we going to survive for eighty six freakin-”

“Could be longer,” he warned me.

“Eighty six 
or
more
 hours, in deep space, with zero power? No lights, no oxygen recycling,
no heat?” I knew heat was not the worst problem, not even in the utter frozen
wastes of interstellar space. The ship was surrounded by hard vacuum, basically
a thermos, the best insulator. There wasn’t anything touching the ship’s hull
to pull heat away, so the only way we would lose heat was through photons of
infrared light slowly radiating away from the ship, and that would take a
while. The crew could wear cold-weather gear, then spacesuits to retain body
heat. So, cold was not an immediate problem.

“Uh, Joe, the problem is a bit more complicated
than that.”

“Of 
course

it is,” I threw up my hands. “Like, what complication?”

“Once I have turned off all shipboard systems
and drained all power, there will be one source aboard the ship still
generating electrical power.”

“Our zPhones?” I
guessed. “Oh, hell, we can live without-”

“Not phones, Joe. Humans. The human nervous
system generates and uses electricity. If all other systems are drained of
power, the energy virus will migrate into your bodies and attack the energy
patterns there.”

“Oh, crap.”

“Uh huh. Oh, crap, indeed. The crew needs to be
away from the ship when I begin turning the power off, so the energy virus
won’t have access to you, because that would be fatal.”

“Away from the ship? In spacesuits that don’t
have any power?” Because spacesuits had a lot of surface area compared to our
thermal mass, heat would radiate away quicker than from the ship. I’m not
bragging about knowing that fact, Dr. Friedlander told me. Heat wasn’t the most
immediate problem, because without power, the suits could not circulate or
recycle oxygen.

“Unfortunately, I do not see any other way to purge
the energy virus from the ship, without it using the crew as hosts, so you need
to get away. And we’re running out of time, so we need to get started.”

“Skippy, you certainly know people can’t survive
eighty six hours, not even eighty six 
minutes
,
in an unpowered suit. Yet, your idea is to get us away from the ship, so you
must have a plan? Please tell me you have a plan.”

“Nope,” he said with way more cheerfulness than
was appropriate. “Not a single clue. I know how to purge the energy virus from
all of our systems. What I do not know is how the crew will survive without any
source of power, long enough for me to absolutely drain all power and erase the
virus.”

“Crap. Explain the problem to me, in simple
terms, please?”

“I have already started draining power from
every system we have, but it’s a race against time, because the virus is
attempting to use the locked-up power to destroy the ship. That means we can’t
delay implementing whatever plan 
you

dream up. The crew will need to be away from energy-storage sources like the
ship and dropships, long enough for me to purge the virus. That is eighty six
hours for the 
Flying Dutchman
, and
about thirty two hours for dropships.”

“All right,” my mind was already racing through
ideas. “We leave the ship in spacesuits that have dead powercells, and how
about we float away from the ship, to meet up with powercells we will send
ahead of us.”

“Not happening. Joe, you have to leave the ship,
but you can’t take any sort of stored energy with you. That includes electrical,
thermal and chemical energy.”

“Shit! We can’t take 
anything
 with us? We are way too far from a star to use solar power
panels.”

“Correct.”

“Then this is freakin’ impossible.”

“Well, to me it is impossible, but I have
learned from painful experience that for all my incredible awesomeness, I am
not good at dreaming up creative solutions to impossible problems. Thus, I have
outsourced that little task to you.”

“
Outsourced
?”

“Sure, Joe,” his avatar waved a hand
dismissively toward me. “Make it happen. Oh, and hurry, please, we don’t have a
lot of time.”

“All right, I’ll talk to Dr. Friedlander. I am
not great at physics, but there is one thing I do know.”

“What’s that?”

“We’re gonna have to science the 
shit
 out of this.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWO
Our horribly complicated and idiotic ‘plan’, and
yes, I am using ironic quotes around the word ‘plan’, started by draining power
from the dropships. All of our dropships, every single one. Then, when every
system aboard those dropships was 
almost

completely dead, Skippy overpressurized the docking bays with nitrogen,
released the docking clamps, and blew the outer doors open one at a time. The
inert dropships got sucked out into space, tumbling out of control away from
the 
Flying Dutchman
. Why, you might
ask, were we not using the dropships as shelters while we had to be away from
the ship? Because the powercells of the dropships took a long time to really,
truly, completely drain, and by the time the powercells were 
totally
 dead and truly purged of the
energy virus, any humans inside would have frozen solid before the energy virus
was safely gone. Also, as the dropship powercells were draining, the energy
virus would be looking for a new host, so it would be very bad for humans to be
aboard a dropship at that time.

Humans could not be aboard dropships, and we
could not stay aboard the ship. For at least eighty six hours, we needed to be
away from the ship, because the much larger powercells and capacitors of the
ship took a very long time to drain completely. That left spacesuits for humans
to survive in, while Skippy purged the energy virus from the ship and
dropships. Easy, right? We get into spacesuits, float away from the 
Flying Dutchman
, and Skippy recovers us
after the ship is rebooted.

Uh, no. Not so easy. First, the powercells of
the spacesuits also had to be fully drained before we got into them. Drained,
like completely superduper dead. The powercells of our Kristang powered armor
suits were comparatively small, so Skippy was able to purge them within a
couple hours before we got into the suits aboard the 
Dutchman
, eliminating the risk of the dying energy virus trying to
infect a person inside the suit. How were we supposed to survive in spacesuits
that had no power at all? That is where our way-too-risky ‘plan’ started to get
really complicated. After the dropships were a safe distance away from the
ship, we all got into suits, wearing portable breathing masks hooked up to
oxygen bottles attached to the suit backpack. The suit helmets weren’t designed
for users to wear a mask, so it was a tight fit, and my mask kept scratching my
chin and the bridge of my nose. Once we had our dead suits buttoned up and
verified everyone had oxygen flowing into their masks properly, we tethered
ourselves together in groups of ten people, floating above the floor of a
docking bay. Skippy depressurized the bay, opened the outer doors, and I
pressed a button on a zPhone to activate a preprogrammed maneuver, then tossed
the zPhone away because its powercell was still active. A few seconds after I
sent the command to the ship’s navigation system, the backup thrusters fired,
moving the ship sideways. It seemed like we were moving, but with the entire
crew floating tethered together, we stayed in one place while the ship slowly
backed away from us. The backup thrusters used pressurized gas and were not
powerful, which was good because we didn’t want any sudden movement in case
something went wrong.

Tethered to nine other people, I tried to relax
and not move, to prevent us from bouncing off the door frame on our way out.
With ten people loosely tied together, we inevitably jostled around and began
drifting toward the ceiling of the docking bay, but we were still well clear
when the ship slid out beneath us and we were floating freely in interstellar
space. All I could hear was my own breathing, the hiss of oxygen flowing into
my mask, and blood pulsing in my ears. With the suit completely drained of
power, I couldn’t speak with anyone over the comm system. To communicate, we
each had something like a small whiteboard strapped to one forearm, and three
high-tech fluorescent magic markers that worked reasonably well in space. If we
needed to, we could write messages on our whiteboards and hold them up for
others to see through the transparent visors of our helmets. In the utter
darkness of interstellar space, the only light was coming from a single point
on the 
Dutchman
, pointed toward us.

Strapped to nine other people, I forced myself
to remain calm to conserve oxygen, and watched the 
Dutchman
 slowly fading behind me. In interstellar space, the bulk
of the ship was a dark void in the dark starfield, except for the one light
that Skippy kept pointed in our direction. With that light, I could see other
groups of people tied together, each group tumbling slowly out of sync with the
other groups. There was no point trying to stabilize the tumbling because even
if we could synchronize the actions of ten people using hand signals, as soon
as a group got stable, little motions would get the group tumbling again.

For forty long, silent, lonely and terrifying
minutes, we drifted in empty space. After we had drifted half a kilometer from
the ship, or technically after the ship had drifted half a kilometer from us,
the preprogrammed instruction fired the ship’s backup thrusters hard, using up
all the stored gas canisters. We needed to be safely far from the ship when
Skippy began draining all power from every energy-storage system, and we
couldn’t wait long, so the ship had to scoot away from us as fast as possible.

The only way I knew how much time had passed was
by Skippy blinking the spotlight after each five-minute period had passed. When
the spotlight blinked six times, I knew we had been floating inside dead
spacesuits for thirty minutes, and I was already getting distinctly chilly.
Part of me being cold was psychological, the Kristang suits were good at
retaining heat and the hard vacuum of interstellar space was an excellent
insulator. Skippy had assured us we would not be in danger of hypothermia for
nearly an hour, but at the thirty minute mark, I could feel my toes growing
stiff and cold, and I could only move them a little inside the boots. Even
three pairs of US Army cold-weather socks were not helping my toes be happy.

Finally, the spotlight blinked eight times to
signal forty minutes had passed, then shined solidly for ten seconds in case
any of us were not paying attention. That was the signal we were now a safe
distance from 
the Flying Dutchman
, where
the energy virus could not project itself across the gap. 
Probably
 could not project across the gap, according to Skippy, he
was guessing and the best he could give me was a solid ‘shmaybe’ about it.. His
level of confidence didn’t matter, because we couldn’t wait much longer. I was
shivering inside the suit, and our oxygen supply was only going to stretch
another thirty minutes. We needed to get started on the next phase of our
science team’s complicated, impractical plan.

How, you may ask, were we supposed to restore
power to our suits, when we could not take any type of energy-storage device
out into space with us? I asked Friedlander the same question, and when he explained
how our suits were going to power up, I nearly choked. Using the few bots
Skippy was able get working, the beer can had made a superduper high-tech
device that blew my primitive caveman mind when I saw it: a spring. Yes, a
tightly-wound coil of some flexible composite material, attached to an electric
motor. Skippy’s little helper elfbots had wound the springs for us before the
devices were attached to our suits. All we had to do was reach behind to the
bottom of our packs, and put a gloved finger through a ring to pull out a
locking pin. I got it on the first try, without the fumbling around that
happened when I practiced the maneuver aboard the ship. With the locking pin
spinning away into deep space, I pulled a lever and felt my backpack shake as
the coiled spring unwound. The suit stopped shaking, but still there were no
comforting status lights showing in my helmet visor. Skippy had warned me the
powercells needed to reach a minimum charge before the suit’s systems would
restart.

“Hey, Joe! Hey, can you hear me?” He made a
booming sound like a finger tapping a microphone. “Is this thing on? Damn it.
Stupid monkey probably broke the spring. Why did I trust-”

“I’m here, Skippy,” I replied, speaking slowly
because my teeth were chattering from the cold.

“Joe! Man, it is good to hear your voice. Ok,
Ok, getting a status message from your suit, looks like you have within one
percent of the expected charge level. Pretty good, huh? I cobbled those springs
together out of spare parts, wasn’t sure they would work. It is-”

“You weren’t sure they would work? Yet you sent
us out into the great beyond anyway?”

“In my defense, I wasn’t sure 
all
 of them would work, I was confident
most of them would. So far, it looked like only one spring has failed, and that
still provided seventy percent of the output I expected.”

“Are all the suits in my group powered up?” From
my position on the tether, I could only see into one other person’s faceplate.

“Yes, Joe. The person with the bad spring is in
Major Desai’s group, she is helping that person get powered up manually.
Speaking of which-”

“Yeah, I’m on it.” While I reached into the sort
of fanny pack on the front of my suit, I called out to the other nine people in
my group, talking briefly with each of them to assure myself they had come
through the ordeal without too much trauma. Or, that they had come through the
first part of our ordeal, because the really traumatic part for me would come
later. Next, I checked in with the other group leaders while carefully
extracting the handle from my fanny pack and connecting it to the gear on my
belt. My grandfather would have described the next part as a ‘cockamamie
scheme’; he was fond of colorful old-fashioned expressions like that. The
pre-wound spring only provided enough power to get the suits restarted and
allow comms and oxygen recycling to be restored. To keep those basic systems
running, and to get the heater units going, we needed more energy. We did not
have extra coiled springs, but fortunately we did have a source of power: human
muscles.

After I fitted the handle to the gear, I
extended the handle and began slowly pulling it toward me. When the handle
touched my chest, the gear slipped into another position, so I pushed it
outward then pulled it back toward me. Yes, the science team’s amazing and
super-practical plan was for us to provide our own source of electricity, by
turning a crank. It was awkward and the motion caused me to rotate in space,
but I could see the power level in the lower left corner of my visor inching
upward with painful slowness. It was like doing bench-presses or push-ups,
followed by pull-ups or a rowing motion. The gear had a dial so you could
adjust the effort required, the more effort you put into it, the faster the
powercells charged.

Once I was sure the suit’s oxygen recycler was
working correctly, I manually shut off the oxygen mask although there was no
way for me to remove the awkward thing. Pull the handle, push it outward, and pull
it again. We kept each other’s spirits up by chatting, and I frequently checked
in with Skippy. Cranking up our own power supplies was boring and made my
forearms ache, but we had nothing else to do nor did we have a choice, so we
kept it up. Two hours after we started, I heard a voice with a French accent
announce “
Acheve
! Complete! I am
finished,” the paratrooper added in English.

“Shit! Just missed it!” A Ranger called out,
having reached the target powercell charge level a fraction of a second too
late.

“All right, people, it’s not a competition,” I
called out, though with good cheer.

“Colonel Bishop,” Major Smythe advised me on a
private channel, “these are elite special operations troops. 
Everything
 is a competition.”

“I know that, Major. Just as I know the troops
expect the Old Man to keep them focused.” The Old Man. Me. Even though I was
younger than many of the SpecOps team, and all of the civilian scientists. On
an open channel, I added “Congratulations to the winner, a bottle of champagne
will be awarded when we get back to the ship. Runner-up gets a six-pack of
beer.”

“
Merde
,”
the Frenchman complained, not approving of the champagne Major Simms had
selected for the journey. “Is it too late for me to switch?”

“Hey, forget about that, buddy,” the Ranger
laughed. “I’m keeping that beer. Oh, hell, I’ll let you have one bottle.”

Friendly competition is healthy, I told myself,
with one eye on the power level of my own suit. At the fading rate I was adding
power, it would be another twenty minutes before I could stop hauling back on
that stupid handle. “How are we doing, people?” I asked the other nine people
on my team. Everyone chimed in with ‘Fine’ or ‘Ok’ or some version of that.
“Poole?” I asked my involuntary bodyguard, who was behind me. “How are you
doing?” I asked her again because of the strain I heard in her voice when she
had replied with a terse ‘Squared away’.

“Almost there, almost, done!” She shouted in
triumph.

“Seriously?” I looked at my power meter in
dismay.

“Yes, Sir,” she was slightly out of breath. “How
are you doing?”

“I’m uh, fine,” I hoped the embarrassment I felt
at failing to finish before her wasn’t reflected in my voice. Poole was a
kick-ass Ranger so I shouldn’t feel bad that she had beaten me. Yes, my male
pride was bruised but, when a woman beats me at something that means she earned
it. She worked longer and harder than I did, plain and simple.

Knowing Poole had finished the task of cranking
her suit’s powercells up to the recommended level, made me more determined to
finish the task as soon as possible. Poole is a Ranger and she is in excellent
condition, but I have been in the gym with her and I know I can bench-press
more than she can. How did she beat me? It’s simple, I told myself. I had been
taking breaks when the strain got too much for me. Poole had powered through
the pain and kept going steadily.

 

“Skippy,” I called, my forearms cramping. The
pain in my arms and hands, plus the droplets of sweat beading up on my forehead
and wicking down into my eyelashes, made me pause even though the power meter
still stubbornly blinked that I had three percent more to go before I was at
the recommended minimum level. “Is there something wrong with the gear I’m
using? I’ve been working my ass off, and this meter is moving up slower and
slower.”

“Huh? No, come on, Joe, I was just screwing with
you,” he laughed. “
Duh
. You finished
three minutes before Lieutenant Poole.”

“
What
?”
I screamed at him, and was rewarded by the entire crew laughing uproariously at
me. Crap. That asshole beer can had put our comms on an open channel. “You son
of a-”

“Oh, boo freakin’ hoo, Joe,” he chuckled. “Poor
you.”

“I’ve been killing myself here!”

“Look at the bright side, Joe. You now have a
reserve of power, and all that work warmed you up, so you don’t need to run
your suit heaters yet. You can thank me now.”

“That was 
not

a funny way to screw with me, Skippy,” I fumed at the beer can.

“Wrong, dude, it was freakin’ 
hilarious
,” he giggled like a little
girl. “Truthfully, it was originally just a fun way to screw with you, but when
you kept going and going and never caught on to what I was doing, it became an
experiment to see how gullible a dumb monkey you are. I kept checking back in
to see if you had caught on to my totally obvious trick, but, 
noooo
. Every time I looked, little Joey
the dumb monkey was mindlessly working away without using his brain at all. The
answer to my experiment is, damn you are a 
dimwit
.
Seriously, after a while, I started feeling sorry for you. Not sorry enough to
stop you, it was way too entertaining. Anywho, no harm done, and everyone got a
good laugh to lift morale at a tension-filled time.”

Crap. I could not argue with that asshole. On
the open channel, I could still hear people snickering at my expense. “I
suppose no harm was done,” I said with what I hoped came across as a
good-natured tone, while inwardly I was fantasizing about dropping him into a
black hole. “What’s the status over there?”

“Ran into a couple minor glitches.”

“Minor?” Nothing involving killer Elder energy
viruses could be ‘minor’. “Like what?”

“Oh, nothing worth writing home about. The
energy virus now realizes what I’m doing, and with you and the dropships out of
range, it is adapting and trying to infect me.”

“Holy shit,” I gasped, remembering how an Elder
computer worm had nearly killed him. “Are you going to be Ok?”

“Sure, Joe. Let me assure you, I am not playing
games with the virus; it’s too dumb for me to bother with. I am straight up
blocking it from accessing my matrix. The virus knows it has zero chance
against me, so it’s getting desperate.”

“You thought that computer worm had no chance to
hurt you, and you were wrong about that, you little shithead. This virus is
Elder technology, like the worm.”

 “Elder tech, yes, but not anything
sophisticated like that devious little worm. Remember, this virus was designed
only to keep track of ships the Guardians wrecked, and to disable damaged ships
if they attempted to power up. It is a very limited function system. Seriously,
I am in 
no
 danger.”

“You saying that does not reassure me, Skippy.”

“Says the monkey who kept cranking that handle, 
duh
.”

“Oh, shut up. Hell,” I sighed. “I can’t do
anything about it from here. Are we still on schedule?”

“Close. I now estimate the ship will be safe
after a purge of ninety one hours.”

“That’s five hours more than your original
estimate.”

“Five hours more than my original 
guess
, dumdum. I told you, I’ve never
done this before. Now I have data to work with, and I learned the virus is more
persistent than I thought. The damned thing is rerouting circuits by itself to
concentrate the remaining power in a few systems, in an attempt to delay the
inevitable time when it fades away completely.”

“Shit, 
that

doesn’t sound good.”

“It actually is good news. I suckered the virus
into doing that, and it fell right into my trap. That virus is nearly as
gullible as you are. Joe, if this works, the remaining virus will be
concentrated in one cluster of powercells, and I can kind of use my own power
source to burn out that cluster. My hope is doing that will cut eleven hours
off the time when you can return to the ship.”

“Hey, I’ll give that virus lessons in being
gullible, if that would help.”

“I will keep that in mind, Joe. In the meantime,
everyone now has enough power to survive in their suits until the dropships are
ready to be boarded. Assuming, you know, the purge operation I’m running on the
dropships actually works. Unfortunately, I won’t know for certain until you go
aboard a dropship and the energy virus kills you, or doesn’t.”

“Skippy,” I sighed, “I get 
such
 a warm and fuzzy feeling of safety whenever I’m around you.”

“Really? Wow, you’re even more gullible than I
thought.”

“All right, I’ve got power, I’ve got oxygen, and,
and,” I looked around. The outline of the 
Flying
Dutchman
, a dark outline in the utter blackness of interstellar space, was
slowly fading behind me. Other than the one blinking light on the ship’s hull,
the only artificial light was the faint glow coming from helmet visors. Damn,
what the hell were we doing out here? Humans had no business going to the
stars. Yet, we were out here, and we had to make the best of it. “And that’s
about all the good news I can think of.”

 “You
want some good news? Heeeeeeey, Joey!” He started the conversation like a TV gameshow
host, the kind who expects you to be thrilled when you win a set of cheap patio
furniture, even though you live in a tiny apartment with no patio or balcony.
“Have I got great news for you!”

“I don’t know.”

“Um, what?”

“I do not know whether you have great news for me.
You haven’t told me yet.”

“
UGH
.
Why do I even bother-It’s an expression, dumdum. Do I have to explain-”

“Come on, Skippy, 
I
 was just screwing with you. What’s your great news?”

“Hmmf,” he sniffed. “Maybe now I don’t want to
share it with you.”

“I am terribly, terribly sorry that I spoiled your
big moment,” I apologized sincerely, hearing how hurt he sounded. “We could
really use some good news right now. What is it, you improved reactor
efficiency by two percent or something?”

“Noooo, this is truly great news. News 
you
 have been waiting for.”

“Me? How about I shut up, sit back in my imaginary
chair, and prepare to be dazzled?”

“Better hold onto the arms of that imaginary
chair, Joe.”

“Got it.” Mentally, what I prepared for was
disappointment, expecting the beer can to make some nerdy announcement that
would have me suffocated by boredom. Oh, hell, maybe his great news was
something the science team could be excited about. Whatever the announcement
was, I would fake enthusiasm. “Hit me.”

“I am close to being finished with rearranging my
internal matrix.”

“Wow!” I gasped a little too loudly to be
believable. “That is 
awesome
.”

“
That
 is
not the great news, dumdum.”

“Sorry.”

“The great news is, wait for it, wait for it,
waaaaaait-Many of my restrictions have been relaxed or I have found a way
around them,” he said in a breathless rush.

“Holy shit.” It was a good thing he told me to
hold onto the imaginary chair because my legs shot out in front of me and I was
jerked to a stop in the zero gravity. “Damn! That
 is
 awesome! Can you now fly the ship by yourself?”

“Uh, no.”

“Ok, how about weapons? Can you fire weapons by
yourself?”

“Again, no.”

Crap. It was time to lower my expectations. Lower
them as far down as they could go. “You, uh, improved your singing voice?”

“Dude! I would never mess with my incredible
talent. My voice is an instrument that deserves to be shared with the galaxy.”

“Ok, so, what can you do now?”

“In a small way, and only by basically fooling my
restrictive subroutines, I 
might
 be
able to share some of my technical knowledge with you hairless apes.”

My hopes soared, and I slapped them down until I
learned exactly what Skippy meant. “What do you mean, ‘in a small way’?”

“Oh, minor shit like how reactors work, the theory
behind jump drives. You know, basic first-grade stuff like that. Before you get
all giddy, I said I 
might
 be able to
share technology. Ugh, what have I done? I screwed myself!”

“How do you figure that?”

“Because now a certain filthy, ignorant monkey is
going to constantly bug the
 shit
 out
me asking when I will be able to share my infinite well of knowledge. You are
going to pester me about this twenty four hours a day until I long for the
sweet release of death.”

“Hate to say this, but you’re right about that,
Skippy-O. Come on, you tease me with the idea we might soon get smacked with
knowledge to understand some of the sciency shit,” I tapped my helmet, “that
runs all this advanced technology we use every day, and you expect me 
not
 to be eager to get it?”

He sighed. “No. Ok, to be fair, if I were in your
position I would be like a two-year-old screaming for Mommy to buy candy in a
grocery store. Joe, please understand, I truly do not know if I can sneak
around the restrictive subroutines that currently prevent me from communicating
my knowledge to you. What I have done is discover a sort of back-channel within
my matrix that might, 
might
, allow me
to partly and temporarily bypass those restrictions. I discovered this possible
back-channel while rearranging my sock drawer. There is no guarantee this will
work. Even if it does, my sharing knowledge may not be useful.”

“Uh, why’s that?”

“Because your species is so primitive, Joe! Your
current base of knowledge is 
so
 low,
I will have to dumb things down to the point where the info I provide isn’t
useful to you.”

“We will take that risk, Skippy. Remember, not all
of us monkeys are as dumb as me.”

“Oh, few monkeys are as dumb as 
you
, Joe. Still, even the smartest
monkey, hmm. Oops, did I just insult you again?”

“No, I’m used to it by now. How about you give it
a shot when you can-”

“
If
 I
can.”

“If you can, start by explaining something simple
to, like, Doctor Friedlander? He’s a smart guy.”

“For a monkey, Friedlander is smart. Ok, I’ll try
it. If I can.”

“Great. Thank you, Skippy, that actually is good
news.””

 “Yes,
Joe, but I have not told you the most wonderfully awesome news yet.”

“Skippy, sincerely, for realz, I am already
totally blown away. You have more?”

“Yup?”

“You want me to guess?”

“As I would like to tell you my good news before
the last star in the universe becomes a cold, dark cinder, we can’t wait for
you to guess. The greatest of great news is, and this is also a thank-you gift
for you monkeys helping me kill the worm. Anywho, the Merry Band of Pirates
will soon be able to fly this ship on your own.”

“Awesome!”

“Not forever! But, if something were to happen to
me, you might be able to fly back to Earth. Except for the problem of you not
having a way to reopen that dormant wormhole. To be clear, eventually something
major will wear out, and you ignorant apes won’t be able to fix it, but
otherwise, you could fly the 
Dutchman

on your own.”

“Damn, Skippy, how did you do that?”

“Relaxing my restrictions was a big part of it,
because that allowed me to create a flight control system you can use, without
triggering me to go dormant. The restriction that I can’t directly communicate
with or reveal myself to a starfaring species, has been lifted. Not exactly
lifted, but I was able to,” he laughed, “shift that subroutine into a loop so
it can’t see what I am actually doing. Temporarily, anyways.”

“Ok, but do we now all need to get implants or
something to fly the ship?” Skippy had told us the Thuranin computer that
controlled the 
Flying Dutchman
 was
designed to work with cyborg implants of the little green crew. In fact, it was
designed so that the ship could 
not

function without them, a safety feature that the Thuranin hoped would prevent
an enemy from seizing control of their ships. Only Skippy’s incredible
awesomeness allowed him to fly the ship and run all the maintenance bots
without needing a Thuranin to assist.

“No implants needed, Joe. They wouldn’t work with
your primitive brain architecture anyway. One of the items we picked up from
the junkyard in the Roach Motel was a full controller module AI from an
Esselgin ship.”

“Oh.” During one of the times when Skippy tried to
educate me about the wider galaxy beyond the small area where we had been
operating, he showed me a chart of all current starfaring species. I say
‘current’ because he ignored the half-dozen starfaring species that had gone
extinct over the eons. Anyway, I remembered the Esselgin are clients of the
Maxolhx, about the same development level as the Thuranin, but significantly
younger than those little green MFers. The Esselgin did not have territory
anywhere near Earth, so we had not yet encountered them, but Skippy found several
of their broken ships in the Roach Motel, so we knew they had tried at least
four times to discover the secrets of that hidden Elder star system. “An
Esselgin AI will be compatible with a Thuranin ship?”

“It will now, after I purged the original AI and
installed my own code. I also revised the operating instructions for bots and
other subsidiary systems aboard the ship, so they can work with the new AI. For
the past three days, I have been running the new system in parallel with the
Thuranin computer, now I am ready to begin the process of cutting over to the
new AI. The Merry Band of Pirates will need significant retraining. Joe, I did
not mention this as a possibility, because I was not sure it would work.
Testing has now proven the new AI can handle most ship functions like directing
bots to perform routine maintenance, even to repair battle damage. What you
will find most useful is the new system can recalibrate drive coils between
jumps. The jump drive will no longer become dangerously unusable after two or
three jumps.”

I slumped my head against the back of my helmet,
giving my feeble mind time to process the incredible news. “We can fly the ship
on our own? Like, fly it far?”

“To Paradise and back, or even farther. You
monkeys will still need to program jumps, and no matter how well I explain the
theory to the pilots and the science team, the jumps you program will never
come close to my level of accuracy. However, you should be able to match or
exceed the accuracy of Kristang jumps. Not that their jump accuracy is anything
to brag about, but you are a bunch of ignorant monkeys, so I am grading on a
curve.”

“We appreciate it.” Wheels were spinning in my
mind, imagining the possibilities. “We could send the 
Dutchman
 out on recon missions, while you stay on Earth to protect
our homeworld?”

“Yes! Except that without me, the ship has no way
to reopen that wormhole I shut down.”

“Ah, crap. I forgot about that.”

“And except that if anything major goes wrong, the

Dutchman
 will be stranded a thousand
lightyears from Earth with no way to get home, and no way for me to help.”

“Damn it.”

“And except that, with the Merry Band of Pirates,
something major 
always
 goes wrong.”

“Got it. You made your point.”

“
And
,
there is no way in hell I would agree to be stuck on your crappy, flea-bitten
shithole of a planet, while a troop of screeching monkeys takes this ship
careening around the galaxy on a drunken joyride.”

“Got it. I 
said
,
I got it.”

“The advantage of you being able to fly the ship
on its own is as a safety factor, not so you can drag-race the ship when you
think Uncle Skippy isn’t watching.”

“I know that. And thank you, this is awesome. Hey,
this new AI, will it be Nagatha?”

“What? No. The new AI will not even talk to you at
all, what it mostly does is run the ship’s autonomic functions behind the scenes.
Like, handle all the stuff you don’t even notice. Ugh, the last thing I need is
you monkeys getting distracted by chatting blah, blah, blah with another AI.
Compared to me, this new AI is a toaster, kind of a dumb toaster.”

“Uh huh, yeah, but could it be Nagatha? Could you
bring her back and let her manage this new AI, be its voice or something?”

“That would be a NO, Joe. Cramming the new AI into
the available hardware was like stuffing ten pounds in a five-pound bag. There
is no room left for an AI to nag me.”

“I understand that, Skippy. My question is, what
happens with the current Thuranin computer, after you fully cut over to the new
AI?”

“Nothing,” his voice had a touch of surprise in
it. “Well, part of it will continue to run subsidiary systems under direction
of the new AI. The rest could be used for spare parts, I guess.”

“
Or
,” I
suggested, “you could use the rest of the Thuranin system to host Nagatha’s
presence or essence or whatever you call it.”

“
Ugh
.
Damn it, I fell right into that trap. Ok, yes, I could load Nagatha into that-”

“You 
owe

her, Skippy. We all owe her, but especially you, ya little shithead. She risked
her life to go into your canister and wake you up, after your dumbass lack of
judgment got you and all of us into trouble.”

“Technically, she was never 
alive
, Joe. And if the worm had gotten me, she would eventually
have ceased to function also, so when you really think about it-”

“Coward. You’re avoiding the subject and you know
it. You owe her. Period.”

“Well-”

“Uh!” I held up a finger to shush him even though
I was miles away from the ship. “
Period
,
Skippy. End of discussion. Do you want me to bring Gunny Adams into this
argument?”

“Adams? What does Margaret have to do with this?”

“Adams is a Marine. Their motto is ‘Semper Fidelis’,
which means ‘Always Faithful’. Always. Even when you don’t feel like doing
something. 
Especially
 when you don’t
feel like doing something. Nagatha risked herself for you. You need to uphold
your end of the bargain.”

“Margaret would think I am faithless, if I don’t
take the opportunity to bring back Nagatha, even though her matrix is truly
only a fancy communications subroutine?”

“Adams would consider you lower than a snake’s
belly. Me too.”

“Oh, crap. All right, all right, I’ll do it. 
If
 I can. No promises, monkeyboy.”

“Outstanding. If you are half as awesome as you
brag about, it should be no problem for you, right?”

“Shit. I 
hate

my life. Ohhhh, damn it. This is going to epically suck, like nothing has ever
sucked in the history of the universe.”

“Come on, Skippy. There are way worse things in
the history of the universe. Could it suck worse than your car breaking down in
the second lane of the Jersey Turnpike in heavy traffic the night before
Thanksgiving, when it is like thirty four degrees and pouring down rain?”

“That has never happened to you, that I know of.”

“Thankfully, it hasn’t, I was trying to think of
something that superduper totally sucks.”

“Truly, driving the Jersey Turnpike in 
nice
 weather sucks by itself, but you
have no idea how bad reviving Nagatha will be for me.”

“Why?”

“Because with all the space available in that
Thuranin computer, she could expand her matrix in ways I can’t predict. Joe,
she might even become fully sentient. Unlikely, but my life sucks, so it’s bound
to happen. You know, heh heh, reactivating Nagatha’s matrix is a tricky
process; it would be a shame if something were to go wrong. If you know what I
mean.”

“It would be a shame, because Adams would never
forgive you.”

“Never?”

“Neh-ver.”

“Damn it! I have demonstrated my awesomeness so
often, that now you monkeys expect me to do the impossible.”

“
You

told us you make the impossible seem ordinary, Oh Great One.”

“Shit! Hey, how did my giving you great news spin
out of control for me?”

“The universe hates me, Skippy. Maybe hanging
around me has given you some bad karma. Anyway, how about you tell the science
team, and the crew, your good news? We need to get the crew started on training
to use the new system to fly the ship. I assume you have bodaciously amazing
PowerPoint slides for training materials?”

“Oh, crap, I forgot all about that. I will have to
create a training manual, and revise the control displays in the bridge and
CIC, and program simulations. What a huge pain in the 
ass
!”

“How long will that take?” I asked anxiously,
knowing our hotshot pilots would be bugging me about training two seconds after
they heard the news.

“Huh? Oh, I just did that. A full training regimen
is available now.”

“You, uh, see what you did there, right? Creating
a training program in a nanosecond is why we expect you to do the impossible.”

“It was zero point seven nanoseconds, smartass.
Ah! Damn it! I just did it again! Joe, the next time I boast about my
incredible awesomeness, please remind me how much that gets me into trouble.”

“Sure thing, Skippy,” I bit my lip, because I knew
there was no way that arrogant little shithead could resist bragging about
himself. “Again, thank you from the bottom of my heart, that goes for all of us
unworthy monkeys. We truly appreciate it.”

“Ha! As if! You are not capable of understanding my
awesome- 
Crap
! I just did it again!”

“Yeah, well, until you can purge that energy
virus from the ship, us monkeys being able to fly it by ourselves is just a
theory.”

“Good point. I shouldn’t have mentioned it yet,
but I figured, you are drifting in space with nothing else to do, so I was
making conversation.”

“Skippy, you are right that I have absolutely
nothing to do but wait until the dropship powercells are cold and dead. Wait!
Before you start singing showtunes at me, I’m going to read about what the hell
kind of trouble Perkins has gotten into this time.”

“Good idea, Joe. I took a few liberties with
filling in the details, the report I downloaded was kind of skimpy.”

“She’s really in trouble?”

“Well, she 
was
.
Now the entire population of Paradise is facing extinction.”

“Oh, crap. Hey, now that my suit is working
again, can I pull up the report in my suit visor?”

“Done.”

Text appeared in my helmet visor, I could
control how fast it scrolled by eyeclicks. It looked like a long report but I
had nothing else to do. “Thanks, I’ll start reading.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THREE
Emily Perkins raced through the dense forest as
if she were being chased by a bear, running flat-out. The Ruhar combat skinsuit
she wore enhanced her speed, and included sensors and stabilizers to compensate
for her slow human reaction time, but the blinking yellow dots in the synthetic
view projected onto the inside her of helmet visor showed the enemy was getting
closer with every second. Every time she stumbled on the uneven ground, every
time she had to leap over a fallen log, every time she ducked to clear a
low-hanging tree branch, she lost ground to her pursuers.

Time. They needed time. “Jarrett! Cover fire!”
Perkins ordered, hating the words as she spoke but they had no choice. Jesse Colter
and Dave Czajka were already dead, she had seen them fall to enemy fire and
their icons now blinked red as their suits reported life functions had ceased.

It was a disaster, a total disaster. She was about
to lose her entire team in the space of a few minutes. The enemy was too fast,
too skilled, and humans had too little time with their advanced Ruhar combat
gear. They never had a chance. Colter and Czajka had remained behind to set up
an ambush, so Perkins, Jarrett and their alien liaison Nert might get away, but
their sacrifice had been for nothing. Even firing from a well-chosen defilade
position, behind the crest of a rise in the ground and between fallen logs that
gave good cover, the two human soldiers accounted for only four enemy dead,
before they had both been killed by guided rockets that shredded their bodies
despite the tough but flexible skinsuits.

“On it!” Shauna replied and dropped to the
ground instantly, rolling over to rest behind a tree. Her ragged breathing made
her head bob around so much inside the helmet that she could not eyeclick to
engage the targeting system, so she relied on the scope of her rifle. Seven
yellow dots were advancing in good order, two on the left, two on the right and
three in the center. The enemy moved 
fast
,
so fast over broken ground. Their tactics were excellent, leapfrogging from
cover to cover, with one group laying down suppressing fire while the other two
groups raced ahead. Since Jesse and Dave had shot four of the enemy, they had
grown wary of the sting even lowly humans could inflict, so they had taken to
using cover wherever they could find it.

She looked away from the rifle’s targeting scope
to see the terrain around her, verifying the info from the synthetic view
projected onto the inside of her helmet’s visor. A little voice in her head
reminded her that those seven yellow dots were a guess, a composite image based
on data collected by her suit’s passive sensors. The sensors had a wide variety
of data to work with. As the enemy moved, they created vibrations in the air
that were picked up as faint sounds, although the enemy’s own suits sent out
dampener waves that partly canceled out their own vibrations, and could also
project false vibrations at a distance of up to a quarter kilometer. By moving
at high speed through the air, the enemy left ionized trails through the air
but, these too could be false sensor data because ion trails could be masked or
faked. Heat from overworked bodies and the powered suits was a good source of
passive location data, except in combat mode their mech suits could temporarily
store heat in a sink so the suit’s surface matched the surrounding temperature.
Often the best source of data were brief bursts of laser light as the enemy’s
suits kept up a line-of-sight datalink between them, but her own suit could
only detect backscatter of those laser pulses and the enemy suits constantly projected
false pulses to confuse her sensors. Like her own Ruhar skinsuit, the enemy’s
armor had a limited stealth and chameleon capability, so she could not even
trust her own eyes. The enemy could be approximately where the visor indicated,
or those could be false images based on outdated or faked data. Stilling her
breathing, she successfully eyeclicked after two missed attempts, and adjusted
to sniper mode.

The yellow dots changed to yellow circles, to
show the true probable location of the enemy, and Shauna cursed to herself.
Those rings displaying the ‘circular error of probability’ were big, too big to
be useful to her for targeting. Worse, three of the circles were a pale,
blinking yellow, showing the sensors did not trust the data on those three enemy
soldiers. And there weren’t only seven circles. Off to the right were two fuzzy
pink circles, the visor’s way of telling her there might be 
nine
 of the enemy facing her. She told
herself there could be as few as five actual people out there chasing her, but
five-to-one odds were nearly as bad as nine-to-one.

Damn it! Shauna screamed in her head but no
sound came from her mouth. To shout would pinpoint her position to the enemy as
surely as if she had turned off her stealthware and stood up in full view.

Think, Shauna, think. I need to find—

One of the yellow circles became a bright yellow
dot with a blinking green arrow pointing to it, which Shauna knew meant her
suit had picked up a transient, a short spike of data. Probably a sound, such
as someone stepping on a dry twig in the forest. The enemy would know their
mistake and move to throw off her targeting, so she reacted without hesitation,
gently depressing her rifle’s trigger button. Invisible bolts of maser energy
lanced out, stitching a line across trees and undergrowth and she heard a
panicked scream.

Shauna did not wait to verify she had hit the
target; she rolled to her right into a shallow depression and wiggled backwards
then got on hands and knees when she could, crawling quickly and keeping low.
Although the maser energy was invisible to the naked eyes of her and the enemy,
all their suits could see the maser bolts clearly and her position had been
pinpointed exactly. The tree she had used for cover was being sliced apart by
maser beams, chunks blowing off the trunk as the water within the wood boiled
and exploded from the microwave energy. She was pelted by flying splinters of
charred wood but none of the deadly beams hit her.

Now the targeting data was resolving as the
enemy rushed her position, three circles becoming dots as her suit became
supremely confident of the enemy’s location. Shit! She cursed inwardly. Another
yellow dot wasn’t moving, representing the soldier she had shot, but the
formerly pink circles to her right were now yellow dots, racing past her. The
enemy was engaging with only three soldiers, while the others continued to
pursue Perkins and Nert. Damn it! She had no chance to do anything about the
soldiers that had already outflanked her. “Colonel Perkins, at least four have
gotten past me and are moving in your direction.”

The only reply was a click, as Perkins could not
risk giving away her own position by transmitting more than nanosecond burst.
Ok, what to do next? Shauna could run, the direction would not matter as she
couldn’t hope to escape. To qualify for infantry duty with the US Army, she had
trained to the point where every muscle in her body screamed at her, to the
point where soft-tissue injuries risked ruining her dreams. A partially torn
rotator cuff, a sprained ACL, sharp heel pain from plantar fasciitis, she had
not let any of that delay her training, not let mere pain stop her from proving
she was physically capable of keeping up with male soldiers. Now, with the
incredible technology of the Ruhar combat skinsuit, she could run, jump, lift
just like any man. In some ways, her better fine motor control allowed her to
handle a rifle better than a human man, that is why she had been designated the
team’s sniper.

Sniper. That’s what she needed to do. The three
yellow dots in front of her had stopped moving and were now slowly becoming
circles as her suit lost confidence in their exact location. She knew the enemy
was similarly unsure of her position, perhaps more unsure as she had stopped
moving before they did and she had not been racing through the forest making
noise.

Slowly, she rose up onto her elbows and
eyeclicked to dim the synthetic view, zooming in her sight on the real world,
relying on old-fashioned photons reflecting off objects into her eyes. Nothing.
She used the dimmed synthetic view to guide her eyes, but there wasn’t anything
useful to see out there. Trees, bushes, undergrowth, vines hanging down. The
area was near a river and the ground was spongy and swampy in spots, with
plants like dark-colored ferns growing densely in clumps. The vines were a
hazard, they were not poisonous and most did not have thorns, but they hung
down and a running person could get tripped or tangled easily. She saw vines
swaying where the enemy must have passed by, for there was little wind that day
to stir the air. Swaying vines only told her where the enemy had been, not
where they were, and the circles in her visor slowly grew larger as her suit
lost track of the enemy.

There! A clump of ferns moved in a sudden jerk
and Shauna’s pinky finger selected her rifle’s railgun mode. Masers were no
good for shooting through underbrush; she needed the explosive-tipped
flechettes of the railgun. Ruhar rifles were almost silent, as the masers made
no sound at all until they hit something. In conditions of rain or high
humidity the air could sizzle quietly as the beam passed through, but that was
minor compared to the explosive crack of Kristang projectile weapons. Even the
flechettes were quiet, because the electromagnetic rails accelerated the
flechettes to just below the local speed of sound, avoiding a supersonic boom.
The flechettes had a limited ability to guide themselves to a target, and they
had tiny rocket motors to extend their range and kinetic impact so the
explosive-tipped flechettes hit with nearly the same velocity they left the
rifle barrel. Shauna had at first been skeptical of a rifle with such low
muzzle velocity, until she gained experience firing the weapon and now she
loved it. Even the nearly-silent railgun could be detected by enemy sensors,
but the emitted sound was rarely loud enough to pinpoint the shooter’s
location. Against Kristang, she could select a ‘Double-tap’ mode; a maser bolt
followed by a flechette round. The maser beam hit the rigid armor of a Kristang
suit, burning off and weakening the outer layer and providing a hot spot for
the flechette to guide itself into. When the flechette hit the weakened area of
the armor, it would punch through and launch its binary explosive inside to
churn a Kristang body into jelly.

Another press of her pinky kicked the selector
up into three-round burst mode and she gently pressed the trigger button. The
rifle had an internal weight that launched forward as the electromagnetic rails
accelerated each flechette, so she felt almost no kick against her shoulder and
the rifle’s muzzle barely moved between rounds.

Three flechettes reached out and she saw an arm
flung up above the ferns as an enemy was struck. She ducked down and hugged the
ground as returning fire scorched the tree branches above her. One down, two to
go. But she could not move from her position, one of the enemy was firing to
keep her pinned down as the other no doubt tried to circle around and outflank
her. The nearly-continuous enemy fire scorched the air, confusing her suit’s
sensors. Confused her passive sensors, but she had other options.

She rolled over onto her back and fired her
rifle’s maser in a long burst to make the enemy take cover, then she reached
onto her belt and tossed upward a hummingbird-sized sensor drone. The tiny
device soared twenty feet over her head and zipped away, unable to climb higher
or its sensors would be blocked by the tree canopy. The mini-drone survived for
five seconds, its active sensor pulses attracting attention and ensuring its
quick death. Five seconds was long enough, more than Shauna had hoped.

Having received data from the powerful sensor
pulses of the drone, Shauna’s suit had mapped out a momentarily clear picture
of the surrounding forest and she took in the info in a flash. One enemy was
lying prone a hundred meters away toward the river while the other soldier was
racing on her right, nearly even with her. Shauna exploded up onto her knees,
sent a barrage of maser pulses at the running soldier and dropped back to the ground
in less than two seconds, holding her breath as the branches above her were
sliced by return fire.

Another one down, her suit clearly indicated she
had killed or disabled the running soldier. She was now facing only one enemy
and hope surged within her, hope that was unexpected and unwanted as thinking
about the possibility of survival was a distraction she could not afford. She
needed to—

Her visor blanked out, going clear as the suit’s
sensors temporarily were knocked offline. EMP, she realized in a panic. The
lone remaining enemy soldier must have fired a rocket toward her, a rocket that
did not explode but instead generated a powerful electromagnetic pulse that
partially disrupted the mechanisms of her skinsuit. She was temporarily blind
other than what her eyes could see and what her ears could hear. With a thumb,
she broke the seal on her helmet faceplate and swung it upward, holding her
breath to listen with desperation. While her suit’s sensors were blind, the
enemy would have been unaffected by the EMP, as the energy weapon would have
been tuned not to emit frequencies used by the enemy mech suit.

What to do? She couldn’t stay where she was, and
her suit’s power-assist motors were fully active, though her own muscles had to
provide all the guidance without suit sensors scanning the ground ahead to
prevent her from stumbling. She turned to look behind her, where the underbrush
thinned out, the ground there being saturated with water in a marsh. The ground
where she had taken cover was spongy and as she moved, the water broke away in
a sucking sound that made her cringe, for the sound surely gave away her exact
location.

Holding still, she listened and heard a crashing
sound to her left. Having little choice as her sensors were still only seventy
percent reset, she smoothly rolled up to one knee and scanned the forest to the
left, seeing only ferns and low-hanging tree branches swaying. She squeezed off
a three-round railgun burst, feeling the stock buzzing lightly against her
shoulder. Switching back to the maser beam, she—

Was knocked to the ground as a maser burned into
her right shoulder, from behind. The sound she heard must have been a decoy,
the enemy tossing a stick or something to her right. She had been a fool and
now she paid the price. The skinsuit had absorbed part of the maser energy,
partly by the suit dropping stealth and going silver to reflect the high-energy
photons, and partly by the outer layer flaking away to expel the heat. It was
not enough, not to compensate for a close-range direct hit. Her right side was
immobile, the helmet now totally offline. Painfully, with the suit’s motors
almost fighting against her, she held the rifle with her left hand and fell
back against a tree to face right, looking for the enemy.

And seeing nothing. The enemy’s stealthware and
chameleon capability was fully active, without synthetic vision she had to hope
she could detect movement out of her peripheral vision as her Ruhar trainers
had taught her.

What the hell. The enemy was probably staring
right at her, gloating as she slumped against the tree, nearly helpless. With
nothing else to do, she screamed defiance and cut loose with the maser on semiauto
mode, sweeping the forest in front of her. Her rash action was rewarded by a
glimpse of an enemy silhouette lit up by maser bolts, just as a railgun dart
slammed into her chest-

 

Emily Perkins’ heart skipped a beat as she saw
the icon representing Sergeant Shauna Jarrett go red, to reflect yet another
human was dead on the battlefield. Perkins was now the only human survivor of
her team, with her Ruhar liaison Nert Durndurff the only living being on her
side in the battle. “Nert! Go ahead!”

“No, Colonel Perkins, I will not leave you! We
are almost there!”

Perkins did not waste time or energy arguing
with the teenage alien. “To the right, along this stream!” She turned, her
skinsuit stabilizing her clumsy motions to prevent her from falling in the
high-speed maneuver. With the power assist of her suit motors, she was running
at the speed of an all-out sprint, a speed that by herself she could only keep
up for fifty meters or less, but she had been running at that pace for a full
two kilometers away from the river. It was blindingly, astonishingly fast, and
it was not enough. Four icons representing the enemy were gaining on them,
gaining rapidly, with two veering left and two right. The enemy was trying to
encircle the two survivors, and there was little Perkins could do. Splashing
along the streambed, she and Nert were momentarily away from the enemy’s line
of sight as she could see her goal; a defensible position.

When she began running up and away from the
stream to a low ridge, she urged Nert onward, knowing the young alien was
holding back his own pace to cover her. As Nert ran, he was firing his rifle’s
maser backwards blindly. She didn’t bother to stop him, for just then she
reached the top of the ridge and folded her legs to crash down into a shallow
swale, rolling over onto her belly and bringing her rifle up to sight over the
ridgeline. The position was not as defensible as it had looked when she scouted
the area that morning, the terrain was terribly exposed behind her and the
‘ridge’ was no more than three feet tall, barely enough for her to take cover
behind.

Nert ran toward her and she raised her left hand,
waving to him. The alien cadet charged up the slope in two long strides,
ducking under a vine and bounding high over the ridge top, whooping
triumphantly until his body jerked as he was hit by a maser beam and a railgun
dart at the same time. He fell forward to hit the ground hard with a thud
Perkins felt through her suit.

“Nert! 
Nert
!”
Perkins screamed frantically, dropping her rifle and crawling to the cadet, but
he was already gone. “Son of a-” Perkins bit her lip inside the helmet. As the
only survivor, success of the mission was solely her responsibility now.
Shoving her emotions down inside herself, she reached for her rifle, and yanked
a spare powercell off Nert’s waistbelt. The counter on top of her rifle
indicated she had only six flechette rounds and eighteen percent energy charge
remaining. The maser exciter would eventually burn out but that took thousands
of shots, nothing she needed to worry about right then. Keeping low, she
crawled to her left, cringing as she bumped into Nert’s limp form, moving on
knees and elbows toward a fallen tree where she could hide behind the upturned
roots that would give her good cover for-

“Ow!” Something slammed into her butt cheeks
from the left, knocking her to the ground hard. Apparently crawling on her
knees lifted her too high off the ground and she had paid for her mistake, a
lesson she should have remembered from crawling under low-hanging wire all the
way back in basic training. Stupid! Stupid! Her visor showed the skinsuit had
properly gone rigid when its proximity sensor field detected the incoming
railgun round, and at the extreme angle, the round had failed to penetrate. The
damage was done anyway, as she could not move her legs, something vital in the
skinsuit’s motor mechanism must have been knocked offline.

Laboriously, she crawled forward on her belly,
using only her hands, sliding the rifle ahead of her and dragging herself to
it. Only three more meters and she could turn over, her back to the protection
of the tree roots and a partially obstructed view in the direction of the
river. Her visor was showing only large, fuzzy yellow circles as the suit had
lost track of the enemy. No matter, they had to come from only two directions
and she could cover both. Sliding the rifle forward again, she eyeclicked to
open a menu option, and selected it. With one last effort, she heaved herself
to the downed tree, pulling herself onto her backside with difficulty since her
legs had become useless. Sighting along her rifle, she scanned the ground in
front of her, seeing nothing. Turning to the right, she—

Had the briefest glance of an enemy helmet and
rifle popping up over a bush, then a burst of darts hit her.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER FOUR
“Cease fire! Cease fire!” The leader ordered.
“She’s 
dead
, stop shooting, you
idiot!” He was angry because the soldier who had killed the alien stupidly
stood up and fired his maser at the prone target, exposing himself to potential
enemy snipers and giving away the position of the entire team.

“I got her!” The soldier exulted, pointing his
rifle at the dead human. “She’s the last one, they’re all dead.”

“Seven of them, six
 humans
, against sixteen of us, and only the four of us survived?
That is no victory to celebrate! We should have killed them all in the first
five minutes. Humans are slow and weak and they barely have the brainpower of a
slug but they killed ten of us! The commander is not going to be pleased,” the
leader opened his helmet faceplate and spat in disgust.

“They had the advantage,” the soldier protested
meekly. “They were in a defensive posture, they knew the terrain.”

“They only arrived here this morning, with no
time to prepare a fixed defense!” The leader waved a hand to dismiss the
soldier. “This team’s performance was shameful; I am ashamed to lead you. 
You
 clumsy fools,” he clearly was taking
none of the responsibility on his own shoulders, “almost lost.”

Perkins laughed softly as her faceplate swung
open, coming down off the adrenaline high of the wargame exercise. “You did
almost lose,” she pointed out to the leader of the Ruhar cadet team. She knew
they were cadets by the academy logos on the arms of their skinsuits. With her
faceplate open, the visor was no longer feeding her a false image of
stealthware masking the training suits, because those units had no stealth or
chameleon capabilities. The wargame had been impressively realistic, she could 
feel
 the realism. Her hips hurt, because
when a nonexistent railgun dart had ‘hit’ her in the backside, the wargame
controller had slammed her suit into the ground and deactivated the skinsuit’s
leg motors. Trees which moments before had appeared shot up by maser beams were
now intact, because there had been no actual masers, nor flechettes nor
rockets. None of her team were dead or injured, the wargame controller AI would
not allow a participant to harm anyone, or allow a participant to hurt
themselves by clumsiness or stupidity. In that way, the wargame was
unrealistic, but Perkins could see the wisdom of preventing trainees from silly
accidents that would delay their training.

“Ah!” The leader spun toward her angrily.
“Silence, human! You 
did
 lose!”

“We lost this skirmish, we haven’t lost the
battle,” Perkins said quietly.

“What?” The lead cadet asked, tapping the side
of his helmet and shaking his head. “I couldn’t hear you. What did you say?” He
stepped forward, leaning down and menacing the prone human with his inert
rifle. “You should not-” His left foot stepped on a twig, which snapped with an
odd clicking sound.

Then he and his team of three joined the ‘dead’.
Their skinsuits went rigid, lights pulsed inside their visors and alarms blared
in their ears. Unable to control his suit, the cadet wobbled and slowly fell
over to thump to the forest floor a few yards from Perkins. She heard a string
of curse words her helmet did not bother to translate. The mines her team
planted that morning had become active when she activated them with an
eyeclick, moments before the game controller declared her ‘dead’. “Human! You
tricked us!”

Perkins shifted in her immobile suit to get more
comfortable, she was going to be lying there a while, now that the game had
declared her dead. “Yeah, looks like it, huh?”

“You have no honor!” The cadet leader twisted
his neck toward her so he could speak, as his ability to transmit through the
communications network had cut off when he died. “I will file a formal protest,
your tactics are not realistic! In a real battle, that explosion would have
killed your team also.”

“Yes, it probably would have,” Perkins agreed.

“You booby-trapped your own position?” The cadet
asked incredulously.

“We assumed we would be overrun,” she admitted.
“You Ruhar have advantages of size, speed, skill and familiarity with
skinsuits. It seemed unlikely we could escape from your team, even though you
are cadet trainees.”

“You 
planned

for your own deaths?” The cadet was astonished, as if such an idea was outside
his imagination.

“We 
planned

to achieve our objective.”

The cadet snorted in what Perkins thought was a
very human gesture. “You have achieved nothing.”

“Oh really?” Perkins turned her head and raised
an eyebrow, a gesture she knew the Ruhar understood. “While you were chasing
us, your team left your assigned patrol area along the river, didn’t you?” She
almost added ‘asshole’ but kept that remark to herself.

The Ruhar sucked in a shocked breath. “You 
tricked
 me!” He then spoke words that
Perkin’s helmet did not translate, and his suit relaxed, then restored itself
to function. Perkins spoke Ruhar reasonably well, but she wasn’t able to
understand most of what the cadet said, so rapid-fire was his speech. The cadet
barked orders to the three members of his team whose suits also reactivated.
The four stood up and engaged in an animated argument, hands gesturing
emphatically. The cadet leader jabbed a finger toward Perkins, shouting and
stamping a foot while he argued.

Though the Ruhar had somehow deauthorized her
helmet translator, Perkins was able to follow most of the argument among the
four, she had even learned new Ruhar curse words that she needed to research
the meaning of later. “You’re not supposed to be moving,” Perkins spoke loud
and slowly in Ruhar to assure the message was understood by the cadets.
“According to the rules, the four of you are 
dead
.”

That message was received by the four Ruhar and
sparked another round of argument, until the lead cadet made a slashing motion.
Perkins’ imperfect skills at understanding the common Ruhar language made his
words sound stilted, but the meaning was clear. “I will take responsibility!
The decision is mine! We go now!” The cadet held the rifle over his head for
emphasis, then turned to glare at Perkins and shifted his weight onto one leg.
For a moment, she feared he would kick her with the assisted power of a
skinsuit, which could hurt her badly. They locked eyes, the cadet glaring
hatred at her, before he turned and ran back toward the river. His three
teammates joined him, though initially running without enthusiasm. One of the
Ruhar turned back to look toward Perkins, unsure of what to do, then followed
the others with a sad, apologetic smile.

“Nert?” Perkins called out, unable to see behind
herself as her own skinsuit was still rigidly immobile. “You all right over
there?”

“Yes, Colonel Perkins. I am fine, how are you?
That was 
fun
!”

“I’d be better if that jackass hadn’t broken the
wargame rules and run back to his patrol area. It’s up to Striebich and Bonsu
now.”

“Miss Irene and Mister Derek, I mean, Captains
Striebich and Bonsu, are brave and smart,” Nert said hopefully. “They will not
fail.”

Perkins relaxed in the suit, trying to look
around was only making her neck muscles sore. “They had better succeed, or the
only result of our actions will be to demonstrate that humans have no place
serving alongside Ruhar.”

 

“This is crazy,”
Derek remarked. “Certifiably, lunatic, 
nuts
.
You know that, right?”

Irene grimaced and instinctively flinched when a
large native fish bumped against the cockpit canopy of their Dobreh fighter.
The curious creature scraped its bony lips along the see-through material, the
suction cups on the ends of its flippers leaving a trail of yellowish slime.
Irene tapped on the inside of the canopy, startling the fish, which darted
away. In the murky river water, she could see shapes moving in a school as fish
circled the strange object that had dropped out of the sky into their private
underwater world. “This was 
your

idea.”

“No,” Derek gave the pilot in front of him a
disparaging look. “I mentioned it as one possible tactic, a far-fetched one. I
didn’t think 
this
 is what you would
choose.”

“Colonel Perkins approved it,” Irene toggled
through the exterior passive sensors again, finding nothing within range.

“We’re supposed to keep senior officers out of
trouble,” Derek reminded her.

“Yes, 
Captain

Bonsu,” Irene waved him away, irritated. After saving forty thousand Ruhar
lives by blowing up a tropical island, the entire team had received a temporary
promotion of one grade. That was why Perkins was now a lieutenant colonel,
while Shauna, Jesse and Dave were now sergeants. The promotions were supposed
to be made permanent soon at an official ceremony, but so far, the team had
been too busy in the field. “This idea may be crazy, but it’s the only plan
either of us has thought of that could do something useful in this wargame. If
the hamsters had given us a
 real

gunship rather than this broken-down piece of crap, we could have joined the
air battle.”

“That hamster crew chief will blow a gasket when
he sees fish guts in his precious turbines,” Derek said with concern. He had
kept the turbines turning over at minimum power, a setting normally used only
for inspections while the Dobreh was on a ramp or in a hangar. With the turbines
rotating, they created a pressure that prevented troublesome aquatic organisms
from going up inside the delicate parts of the engines. If any fish or snails
or things Derek didn’t want to think about got near the intakes, they were
gently sucked in and hurried along past the slowly-rotating turbine blades out
the exhaust ports, which were fully open. Anyone on the surface of the river
might notice a change in water flow, but the current was already disrupted by
having a Ruhar fighter submerged on the stony bottom. Unless the observer was
familiar with the usual pattern of water flow in that part of the river,
nothing would look unusual.

“That wrench spinner gave you the idea,” Irene
snorted.

“He didn’t intend to!”

“Ah, that’s 
his

problem. I know he is part of the reason we got assigned this hangar queen
instead of a frontline warbird,” Irene was still angry about that. Three days
before the wargame commenced, the two human pilots had been thrilled to learn
they would participate as part of the Green team air support, then their hopes
for getting into action were crushed when they saw the sad piece of crap Dobreh
they would be flying. That particular airframe had literally been sitting in
the back corner of a hangar for months, being steadily stripped for parts to
keep other birds in flyable condition. Even with a battlegroup now based at
Paradise, supplies of some critical materials were in short supply. Some genius
at Ruhar Fleet Command had thought it important to get an impressively large
number of ships and aircraft to Paradise as quickly as possible, probably
hoping to dissuade the Kristang from any adventuresome thoughts of retaking the
planet. While the amount of military gear arriving had indeed been impressive,
the follow-through effort had been weak and poorly organized. Aircraft,
dropships and even a few smaller ships had been pulled offline within weeks due
to lack of replacements for worn-out parts or consumable supplies.

So, when the local fleet commander announced
plans for an extensive wargame covering a quarter of the planet, the supply
personnel had nearly panicked. A significant number of aircraft were not
airworthy due to one fault or another, and some of the aircraft assigned to
flying duty lacked their full complement of weapons or had glitchy sensors.
Irene understood the supply problem, as a US Army helicopter pilot, she had
experienced frustrating issues with keeping her Blackhawk in flyable condition
going back even before her service in Nigeria. If the Ruhar had shrugged and
explained there were not enough aircraft available to waste on lowly humans,
she would have been pissed but she also would have accepted the rationale
behind the decision. Rather than being honest and giving a good effort to find
a flyable hull for Irene and Derek, the maintenance people at the airbase had
done the absolute minimum they could to comply with high-level orders to assure
the primitive humans were able to participate in the wargame.

That is why the two human pilots had been
assigned to a fighter hurriedly cobbled together from whatever used parts were
available. The missile bay was empty not because the exercise was only a
wargame, they were empty because the rotating magazine in the missile bay was
missing entirely, only a couple sad and lonely brackets occupied that space.
The Dobreh was not capable of carrying missiles, and only one of its maser
turrets contained an actual maser cannon, although the crew chief had insisted
strongly that no one attempt to fire the cannon, and the power leads were disconnected.
The crew chief had also warned the pair of humans not to run up the turbines
past thirty six percent of max power, to the point where Irene and Derek had to
sign a formal acknowledgement of that warning to earn the dubious privilege of
taking the piece of crap into the air.

Derek had been pissed to the point of suggesting
they run up a turbine until it burned out on the ramp, forcing the Ruhar to
admit they had provided a substandard aircraft to their pet humans. “Derek,
chill,” Irene had chided her fellow pilot. “We fly this piece of crap, or we
don’t fly at all.
 I 
want to fly,” she
tapped his chest with a fingernail.

“Getting in the air is all this thing 
can
 do,” Derek had kicked a landing gear
strut in disgust. “No way can we keep formation with a combat air patrol,” he
knew the Green Team air commander for the wargame would not have hampered her
chance for success by including humans in her defensive air patrol anyway, the
poor condition of their Dobreh only provided a convenient excuse. “They’ll
assign us to fly recon, or as a decoy.”

“Probably, but we don’t have to stick to
whatever role they give us. We know what this bird 
can’t
 do. Think, Derek, we need to think what we 
could
 do in this thing.”

 

Derek had thought, and Irene had thought, and they
had discarded a dozen ideas before Derek made an off-hand comment about how he
had once watched a Dobreh undergoing testing, back when he was working as a
sort of mascot at a Ruhar airbase, before Perkins and her team had blasted
Kristang ships out of the sky with giant maser cannons nobody knew existed.
Derek had intended the comment as a joke, but Irene thought of the
possibilities, and after discussing the idea with Perkins, they got approval
for their crazy stunt.

That is why, twenty minutes into the wargame,
they had faked a turbine blade failure and been ordered to set their crippled
bird down and wait until the wargame was over. The air boss for the wargame was
happy to have the two pesky humans off his board, as that was one less thing
for him to worry about.

Instead of setting down as ordered, Irene and
Derek had turned off their transponder and flown at treetop level or below,
sometimes following roads or streams where gaps in the tree cover allowed their
Dobreh to almost hover with the wings retracted most of the way. They had flown
a course along air corridors that Green Team intel had indicated were gaps in
Yellow Team sensor coverage, until they reached a stream and followed it down
to where it met a river. At a bend in the river was a deep pool, overhung by
large trees and with a stony bottom that was mostly clear of sticky silt.
There, they had hovered lower and lower until the Dobreh touched the water, and
Derek had cut power. The sophisticated Ruhar gunship fighter settled into the
water, sinking to the bottom where it remained, its active sensors powered off
and with turbines turning very slowly.

They had sunk the Dobreh before dawn that day,
now it was early afternoon. Through a super-thin whip antenna sticking above
the surface, they had been able to follow progress of the wargame through the
Green Team tactical datalink, and through the Dobreh’s computer picking up
Yellow Team signals and guessing what the other side was doing.

“Heads up,” Derek whispered, interrupting
Irene’s train of thought. “Sensors are picking up multiple bogeys,” he warned
of unidentified contacts, then the system gave him positive confirmation; the
contacts fit the signatures of Yellow Team aircraft. “We’ve got company,” he
transferred the sensor data to Irene’s console in the front part of the tandem
cockpit. “Three bandits, weeds at zero forty two.” Derek used the term ‘weeds’
to indicate the enemy aircraft were at such low altitude they would be scraping
the treetops.

“I see them.” The Dobreh’s passive sensors showed
her one troop transport aircraft escorted by two fighters. Using typical cover
formation for a three-ship flight, the fighters were ahead and slightly above
the transport. Irene’s lips curled in a wolfish smile inside her helmet and she
pressed the button to flip her visor down, automatically putting her flightsuit
on internal power and life support. With the Yellow Team aircraft already
passing overhead, those fighters would be badly out of position to defend the
transport from an attack that came behind them. “Button up, we are outa here.”

“Buttoned up, turbines ready,” Derek reported.
“Rocket assist online and at your command.”

“Acknowledged,” Irene said tersely, all business
now that they were going into action. Although the gunship’s twin turbines were
powerful and their blades made of a super-tough composite, they could not apply
enough power for takeoff while the engines were submerged. If they had to rely
only on the turbines, their Dobreh was going to remain at the bottom of the
river. Fortunately, the Dobreh was equipped with rocket thrusters. Those
compact but powerful units could be used when the fighter climbed to an
altitude where the air was too thin for the turbines to provide useful thrust,
or for a quick burst of speed, but they mostly had another use. When a heavily
loaded Dobreh was taking off vertically, the rocket thrusters provided the
extra energy to get the aircraft off the ground and up to speed where the wings
provided lift. With the Dobreh submerged in a river, Irene set the thrusters on
low power for an easy, sustained burn rather than the sudden kick in the pants
they provided on full power. “Three, two, one, 
go
,” she announced in a calm voice, and the Dobreh rocketed off the
river bottom. Her view was instantly clouded as the thrusters stirred up sand
and caused water under the ship to flash into steam. Anyone above the river
could not fail to see an unusual disturbance under the river’s normally placid
surface and that sight would soon give their location away to the Yellow Team
aircraft, but Irene increased power to the thrusters and the Dobreh burst free
of the water in seconds. She had a momentary view of a very terrified fish when
the creature slid off the canopy and into open air above the river, and seeing
the fish’s wide-open mouth and bulging eyes almost made her laugh, then Irene
pulled her focus back to the task at hand.

“Nose is cold,” Derek advised, reminding the
pilot their active sensors were still powered down.

“Go active, light ’em up,” Irene authorized.

Derek turned a selector switch to bring the
sensor pulse gear from Standby to Active and pulses of energy radiated from the
Dobreh’s forward sensor platform. “Targets painted, targets acquired,” he
announced from the rear seat’s weapons console. He did not need to wait for
Irene’s acknowledgement or order, as they had agreed on tactics for various
scenarios, and there wasn’t time for back and forth chit-chat in modern air
combat. The pilot was flying a dash profile straight at the enemy aircraft,
pushing the turbines as hard as they could go. As the Dobreh soared above the tree
canopy that lined the river, the Yellow Team fighters began to break in hard
turns that rapidly bled off their airspeed. The transport went to full power,
surging forward and upward, deploying countermeasures to supplement its stealth
field. Derek was impressed by the opposing team’s reaction time; they must have
turned immediately after their sensors detected the Green Team Dobreh coming
out of nowhere. He imagined the Yellow Team pilots and the remote Air Boss had
to be screaming the Ruhar equivalent of ‘where the 
fuck
 did that Dobreh come from’ but they weren’t acting panicked.
The hamster air crews were skilled, they were disciplined, and they were in
command of awesomely capable aircraft. And they were doomed. While still
underwater, Derek had selected targets and flight patterns for all of their
missiles theoretically carried by the Dobreh. The fact that their weapons bay
was empty made no difference in the war game, for the computer system that ran
the game and functioned as referee acted as if their fighter was fully equipped
as it would be in real combat. Even before the Dobreh climbed above the
treetops, Derek had opened the weapons bay door and the virtual rotary launcher
spun rapidly, ripple-firing every virtual missile they carried, plus decoys and
their own countermeasures. “Winchester on birds!” Derek announced, indicating
their entire supply of theoretical missiles had been expended. The air around
the fighter remained clear except for river water explosively evaporating as
the Dobreh approached the speed of sound, then there was a burst of vapor as
breaking the sound barrier compressed the air in a cone shape behind them. In
reality the air remained clear, but in the enhanced synthetic vision of their
helmet visors the air was filled with angry yellow flares of missile launches
then white contrails, twisting violently as their missiles and decoys jinked to
avoid defensive maser fire from the targets. Without taking time to comment,
Derek poured maser fire at the transport from his own powerful maser cannons.
Though he knew the transport’s shields would deflect most of the maser bolts,
the energy impacting the shields would create a plasma that would light up the
target for his missiles while fuzzing the transport’s point-defense sensors.

As he watched, the missiles he had fired lanced
in toward their targets, several going off course as they were confused by
enemy countermeasures or falling victim to defensive maser fire. The loss of a
few missiles made no difference to the end result; Derek had launched so close
to the enemy aircraft that they had only seconds to react and it was not
enough. First the transport exploded as two missiles scored direct hits almost
at the same time as another missile ripped into one of the fighters. The second
fighter survived long enough for Derek to switch his maser cannons onto it and
send one pulse of maser energy toward it, then the wargame computer determined
the second fighter was also disabled and falling, breaking apart in midair.

Derek did not pump a fist to celebrate, he did
not exult at their victory, he focused on staying alive. Before they died,
those two fighters had each launched two missiles which were now racing toward
the Dobreh that did not have any protection from an effective stealth field.
While the wargame computer had somewhat reluctantly agreed that a
partly-disabled Dobreh 
might
 be able
to fly after spending part of the day submerged in a river, the computer also
decided several of the fighter’s systems would be offline or damaged. That
included the stealth field and defense shield generators. “Incoming!” Derek
warned.

“See them,” Irene replied quietly as she pulled
the Dobreh into a tight turn and pulled the nose up, crushing her down in the
seat as her suit compensated for the high-Gee maneuver. Airspeed rapidly bled
off and she pushed the nose down, aiming again for the river.

“Splash three vampires!” Derek called out to
alert the pilot that only one imaginary missile was now tracking them.

Irene had no time to express surprise or
pleasure at their unexpected good fortune; she had to concentrate as the
surface of the river was coming up fast in her forward view. At the last second,
she was forced to fire the nose thrusters hard when she realized they were going
to hit the water much too fast. The action of the thrusters full-on slammed her
forward against the seat restraints and her nose hit the helmet visor, leaving
a smudge and she tasted a trickle of blood running down her lip. She barely got
the engine air intake doors closed before the Dobreh’s belly smacked the water
with bone-jarring force. The fighter bounced off the surface once, twice, three
times out of control, heading straight for a sandy beach and a watery bog east
of the shoreline. “We’re gonna hit!” She shouted to her copilot, and forced
herself to relax so she wouldn’t tear a muscle as the Dobreh careened across
the water then dug into the beach, throwing up a cascade of sand and dark mud
as the fighter crashed over the beach and into the swampy bog beyond. Irene had
absolutely no control, all she could do was try to manage her frantic breathing
and watch the threat display. That screen lit up as the wargame computer decided
that last Yellow Team missile had exploded above the bouncing Dobreh, and in
sync, all the cockpit instruments went dead while the Dobreh’s forward belly
hit something more solid than sloppy bog mud. Irene’s right hand instinctively
wrapped around the ejection handle, ready to yank it upward and explode both
her and Derek safely upward and out before the fighter’s nose dug in and it
flipped over onto its back to crush them for real. Just as her thumb depressed
the safety button to enable the ejection handle, the Dobreh stood on its nose,
then flopped back down onto its belly, rocking side to side a few times.

“You Ok up there?” Derek asked, his voice
strangely sounding as if he was talking through a mouthful of water.

“Yeah, you?”

“Holy 
shit
,
what did you do? I thought we were gonna have to punch out for a second there.”
Ejecting while the aircraft was in the mud was a situation Derek had not
trained for or even imagined.

“Sorry, that was, uh, kinda unplanned,” Irene
could feel her cheeks reddening.

“Oh, what the hell. In a wargame, you’re
supposed to act like we’re in real combat, right?”

“Are you really Ok?” She hit the button to
release the safety straps and twisted in her seat, trying to turn her head to
see her copilot, but her helmet was in the way and the back of her seat blocked
the view of the copilot ‘pit’ where he sat. “You sound odd.”

“I bit my lip, pretty hard,” Derek explained.
“It’s all right, I-Ow! Damn it! One of those slugbot things is trying to
staple my freakin’ lips closed. Go away!” He shouted at the slug-shaped Ruhar
medical device that had emerged from a storage pouch in the neck of his
flightsuit, and was attempting to treat the human’s injury as best it was able.
When the slugbot halted but would not let go of his bleeding lip, he flipped
his helmet visor up and gripped the tiny thing between two fingers, gently
prying it away and flinging it onto his instrument panel, leaving a bloody
trail across the displays. “Uh!” He jabbed a warning finger at the devoted
little bot as it began crawling back toward him. “You stay right there, I-” he
paused to think for a moment, then found the controls to disable the slugbot.
“Hey! Irene. You see that in your display?” Derek asked as he lowered his visor
halfway.

“Uh huh. Wargame control says this ship is
totally disabled, but we splashed all three bandits.” She switched her comm
system to the guard channel and her ears were blasted by the Yellow Team
commander screaming a demand to know how the 
hell
 a Green Team fighter had just appeared out of nowhere and
wasted an entire assault team. The Yellow Team’s shocked Air Battle Manager was
screaming to clear all her aircraft away from a safe-fly corridor that was now
demonstrated to be anything but safe, which threw her entire air defense plan
into disarray. And various Yellow field commanders were scrambling to discard
carefully crafted attack plans that now had to be revised on the fly. Green
Team commanders were seizing the opportunity to regain the initiative, and also
demanding to know who the 
hell
 had
been flying that phantom Dobreh? “Sounds like we have both sides pissed at us,
we must be doing something right,” she chuckled.

“No, I mean, you 
see
 it in your visor.”

“I-” Irene paused, puzzled to understand what
Derek was talking about, then saw in a flash. Her visor should only be on
passive receive mode, with a blinking red icon to indicate the wargame computer
had declared her ‘dead’. “Our visors are still active! We’re still 
alive
?”

“We are still alive, yes! Derek exulted as he
pumped a fist in the air, mistakenly thumping the inside of the canopy and
bending his wrist painfully.

Having the game computer decide the two human
pilots had survived a crash and being struck by warhead shrapnel was about the
last thing Irene expected. “How the hell did that happen?”

“I don’t know, the wargame computer should have
declared us dead. It also should not have allowed our defense masers to kill
three of those four Yellow missiles targeting us, so I guess that computer has
a sense of humor?”

“Ha!” Irene laughed. “Maybe it wants to see what
crazy shit us humans will do next, huh?”

“Speaking of what to do next,” Derek released
his seat harness and retracted the rear canopy.

“Next?” Irene retracted the forward canopy, but
looked down at the murky black mud their fighter was settling into. “Maybe we
should sit right here until they send air rescue.”

“No way, Jose,” Derek shook his head, stood up
and reached forward to tap the pilot’s helmet. “We’re alive, and we’re in enemy
territory.”

“Oh damn it,” Irene groaned, her notion of
peacefully waiting to be plucked out of the mud swept away. “Escape and evade?”

“Hell yes, we didn’t go through that damned
training for nothing,” Derek shuddered as he recalled the hellishly grueling
nine-day evasion and survival training they had endured as part of qualifying
for frontline service. Service they had never been allowed to perform. “We’re
supposed to high-tail it away from the ship ASAP.”

“Ohhh, you’re right,” she sighed heavily. “This
is going to 
suck
.”

“Come on,” Derek swung a leg over the side of
the cockpit, looking for a spot in the bog where he wouldn’t sink in above his
neck. “You’re seeing that Yellow ground team, right?” His visor indicated
motion on the other side of the river; the system was guessing three to four
individuals headed straight for the downed Dobreh. The dead ship was impossible
to miss even from a distance, as the hot exhaust nozzles were sending up
pillars of steam from being partially submerged in the cold bog water. “We can
at least lead those assholes on a merry chase.”

“It’s not going to be merry at all,” Irene
frowned as she reached under her seat for the survival kit, seeing Derek
already had his own kit slung over a shoulder. “You first.”

“No, ladies first,” Derek winked.

“It’s your idea to leave a nice dry cockpit and
jump into a swamp, 
you
 go first,” she
insisted.

“Fine.” Derek lowered his visor so he could
breathe even if he fell in over his head. You know, he told himself, these
damned hamster flightsuits should come with a simple depth finder so he could
tell how deep the water was. It was so utterly black with churned-up mud that
he couldn’t see bottom anywhere. Walking gingerly out along the Dobreh’s
stubby, swept-back wing, he slipped in splashed-up mud and leaped overboard
before he could fall. As he plunged into the water, he instinctively held his
breath though no water got through the helmet visor seal. Without him doing
anything, the suit automatically inflated a collar below his neck, keeping his
head above the inky-black water. “Uh, I can’t, yes! My feet are touching the
bottom here.”

“That’s great, Derek,” Irene remarked with
sarcasm, hands on her hips. “You’re almost a foot taller than me.”

“Oh. Right.” He walked slowly through the muck
on the bog bottom, walking around to the Dobreh’s nose, where the fighter had
plowed up a ridge of mud. “Come walk out along the nose, it’s shallow here,” he
lifted one leg to show the water was only knee-deep in front of the fighter.
“And hurry, that Yellow team group Perkins ran into is only half a mile from
the riverbank on the other side.”

Hurry, Irene thought sourly as she awkwardly
climbed out of the cockpit and inched her way forward along the fighter’s
sleekly-sloping nose. Next time, she told herself, I’m going to let the wargame
computer decide I am dead so I can relax. She waved Derek away, preferring to
slide down off the fighter’s nose on her own, but she slipped in the mud and
fell back into his arms.

“Careful, this stuff I’m standing in is like a wet
sponge,” he warned, sliding his visor up to breathe unfiltered air.

Irene also retracted her visor, taking a sniff
of the air. To her surprise, it smelled clean, not the dank odor of a swamp.
There was a burnt undertang to the scent that she attributed to heat
dissipating from the engine exhaust. “Well,” she inspected the sophisticated
fighter that now had its bottom third submerged in mud. “This thing is Tango
Uniform,” she smiled as she used the slang for ‘tits up’, meaning broken.

“Hey,” Derek patted the pilot’s shapely behind.
“They gave us a hangar queen, and we’ll give them back a genuine, certified
hangar queen. Nobody else will be risking their necks flying this piece of
crap.”

“The hamsters will still be pissed that we broke
it.”

“I say Whiskey Charlie to that,” Derek laughed,
meaning ‘who cares’. “They will be more pissed that we popped up out of the
weeds on their six and splashed three of their birds. The hamsters will be
scratching their furry little heads about that one. Hey,” he gently tugged her
shoulder to turn her around to face him. “That was great flying. The hamsters
will add that to the textbook someday.”

“Thank-” her reply was cut off as Derek leaned
in to kiss her. Irene responded with enthusiasm, then put a hand on his chest
and pushed him away. “Not here, not 
now
,”
her eyes twinkled to let him know that later might be different. “Escape and
evade, remember?”

“Are you escaping and evading me now?” Derek winked
at her, then cocked his head and held up a finger for silence. “We’ve got company,”
he announced after hearing someone faintly shouting in the Ruhar common
language.

“Let’s move,” Irene slapped her copilot’s shapely
ass, “buster buster buster.”

“Buster, yeah right,” Derek gritted his teeth at
the pilot’s direction to move as fast as possible, though thick mud was sucking
at his boots and making it impossible to manage more than a slow trot. “Tell
that to the mud.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER FIVE
Emily Perkins, along with the rest of her team,
had been able to follow the wargame exercise through her helmet visor. Though
she was technically dead according to the rules of the game, and the system
prevented her from communicating with anyone other than by opening the visor
and talking the old-fashioned way, she had access to all the info available to
her when she had been ‘alive’. She could see the status of each member of her
team including heart rate, breathing and other biosigns. Her suit was still
receiving data through the Green Team tactical data link, and that data was
still subject to spoofing and jamming by the Yellow Team.

Her access to the taclink allowed her to see
that three Yellow Team aircraft had been declared shot down with all hands
lost, near the river where Irene and Derek had hidden their fighter. The
taclink also reported the Yellow commander had committed an aircraft and two
squads of troops to ‘sanitize’ the flight corridor along the river, but until
they could be certain the Green threat there had been neutralized, the area was
a no-fly zone and that seriously screwed up the entire Yellow Team assault
plan. Emily smiled inside her suit even as she wished she had fallen in a more
comfortable position because a stump was digging into her back. Ruhar skinsuits
were great in many ways, their flexibility usually making them superior in
comfort and agility to rigid Kristang powered armor, but at the moment, the
flexible nature of a skinsuit was causing a throbbing pain in Emily’s back. A
Kristang suit would have rigidly propped itself against the stump without her
feeling it at all, but her Ruhar gear was bent over the stump as if the
skinsuit did not exist. That was a design flaw, in Emily’s opinion. Or, she
thought with exasperation, maybe there was a setting she didn’t know about that
could relieve the pressure on her back. The suits did have injectable
nanomedicine for pain relief, the units issued to her team had their medical
gear modified for human biochemistry, but she was reluctant to use it.
Activating a suit’s internal medical systems would be reported up to the
medical people at Green Team headquarters, and that would prompt questions. She
did not want hamsters asking why she needed pain relief when she was merely
laying down in a forest. UNEF could not afford for the Ruhar to think humans
were any softer than their physical limitations made unavoidable.

“Nghh,” she grunted as she shifted around inside
the suit as best she could. After she had been declared dead, her suit had lost
power, its nanomotors inactive. Not only did she not have the advantage of
powered movement, the suit was holding her mostly immobile, except for her
being able to wiggle a bit inside the material but it was like trying to adjust
her position inside a wetsuit. The damn thing would not move as she wanted, and
it did move just enough that she couldn’t quite relieve the pressure on her
sore back muscles. Skinsuits would not allow the wearer to die or be injured,
if she had ‘died’ during the wargame by falling into water, the suit would
prevent her from drowning, even swim her onto land by itself. Its impressive
caretaker feature did not, however, consider the comfort of the occupant.

The upper left corner of her visor showed there
were more than sixteen hours remaining in the wargame schedule, and nearly two
hours until a crew would come to her position to bring the ‘dead’ and ‘injured’
out of the exercise area. Two more hours of a tree stump digging into her—

An alarm sounded in her helmet and her suit
immediately returned to full function. The first thing Emily did was roll off
the stump, then kneel down to stretch her aching back. She spent several
minutes just stretching, bending her sore back and catching her breath, wincing
from sharp pain. “Is everyone all right?” She called on the team channel,
before wincing at her own reliance on alien technology and flipping up her
visor again to breathe unfiltered air. She could see Colter, Jarrett and Czajka
running easily through the woods toward her, and she envied their youth for
they didn’t appear to have stiff muscles from lying on the ground for hours.

“I’m fine, Em-Ma’am,” Dave changed his reply,
red-faced at almost referring to their CO by her first name. “Why is the
exercise over early?” That level of information was not available to him. “I
hope there wasn’t an accident.”

“Good point, Czajka. Striebich!” Perkins called
to her chief pilot. “You two Ok out there?”

“Just fine here, Colonel,” Irene’s voice was
mirthful. “We’re kind of in a swamp near the river here, but we’ll get out Ok.”

Perkins caught the amusement in the pilot’s
tone. “What’s so funny, Striebich?”

“There’s a hamster recon team searching for us,”
Irene laughed, “and they just about had us cornered in this swamp when the
exercise ended early. It’s a group of cadets, and I gotta think their commander
is 
pissed
; we led them on a chase all
over these woods for the past couple hours. Now his mission will get scored as
a failure.”

“Got it. Well, screw him, right?” Perkins knew
that remark would eventually get picked up by Yellow Team intel and they’d be
unhappy. She also knew her own Green Team would be listening, Perkins hoped
they would be amused and impressed by the aggressiveness and fighting spirit of
humans.

“Colonel Perkins,” Nert snapped a US Army style
salute toward the human commander.

“Nerty,” Shauna admonished their young alien
liaison. “Remember, we don’t salute in the field.”

“Oh, sorry.” Nert’s expression was crestfallen.
“You humans call that a ‘sniper check’?”

“You got it. Any sniper in the area will target
the senior officers first.”

“Colonel,” Nert was aware that lieutenant
colonels were commonly referred to as ‘colonel’ except in formal settings, “I
do congratulate you and your team on a daring and successful mission in this
exercise. But, the fact that your success caused humiliation for that Yellow
Team cadet leader may create a problem for you, for all of us, in the future.
He would be a bad person to have as an enemy.”

“Why?” Dave’s eyes narrowed. “Who is that jerk?”

“His name is Bifft Colhsoon,” Nert replied with
a slightly puzzled expression.

“B-Biff? His name is 
Biff
?” Dave laughed and the team joined him.

“Yes, Bifft. Why is that funny?” Nert cocked his
head, wondering if the gang were playing another prank on him. “I am told that
name is similar to a name not uncommon on Earth?”

“Biff 
is

an uncommon name, unless your enemy is Marty McFly,” Dave thought his own joke
was uproariously funny, and he got the others laughing.

“Who is Mar-tee Mick-Fly?” Nert asked, lost. “Is
he a famous hero from Earth history?”

“Yeah, he’s famous all right. He invented the
flux capacitor,” Shauna explained.

“No, that was Doc, uh, what’s-his-name. The guy
with the wild hair.” Jesse corrected his girlfriend, which drew an eyeroll from
her.

“Doc Brown,” Perkins declared, sometimes annoyed
at how conversations among her young team veered off-topic. “Nert, why would it
be dangerous for us to have this Bifft guy as our enemy? He is a senior-level
cadet, but he’s only a cadet. He doesn’t outrank you, and he sure as hell
doesn’t outrank me.”

“His mother is a general in our army, and his
father is a high-level official in the federal government. He could make much
trouble for any of us. My aunt very strictly will not use her position to help
me, but Bifft’s parents have many times unfairly secured advantages for him,
because of their power and influence.”

“Politics,” Jesse spat on the ground in disgust.

The expression on Perkins’ face echoed Jesse’s
disgust, but she couldn’t allow her personal feelings to affect their mission.
Almost every human interaction, and now every interaction humans had with other
sentient species, involved politics on some level. She looked at the UNEF
symbol that was now displayed on the left upper arm of her team’s skinsuits.
The composition of UNEF was entirely politics; only five nations were included
in the Expeditionary Force, though several other countries had wanted to
contribute soldiers. Being excluded had been a blow to national pride, and
Perkins was sure there were still hard feelings about that back on Earth.
Brazil had argued strongly in the UN Security Council that their army should
participate in the ExForce, but that country’s lack of nuclear weapons meant
the Kristang did not take the Brazilians seriously. Emily wondered if the army
of Brazil knew how lucky they were to have dodged that bullet. She also noted
that the influence of Nert’s aunt Baturnah Logellia was the reason the boy was
a member of Perkins’ team. “Ok, people, we have enough enemies in this galaxy,
let’s not go making more. We treat this Bifft cadet with respect, got it?”

“Yes Ma’am,” Shauna agreed stiffly. “But if that
punk-ass kid disrespects one of us,” she looked at Nert and the team understood
how protective she felt about the goofy young alien, “I am not taking any
crap.”

“Jarrett, if this Bifft character needs slapping
down, I will handle it myself,” Perkins also treated their young alien team
member with motherly concern. The alien senior cadet had taken particular
pleasure in the simulated killing of Nert, and Perkins wanted more info about
that. “Nert, do you and this Bifft have a history? Anything we should know
about?”

“No, we do not have a ‘history’,” Nert shook his
head in the exaggerated fashion he had learned to use when communicating with
humans. “We barely know each other at school. I think,” the young Ruhar looked
at the sky while he thought of the correct phrase. “I think he is just a 
dick
.”

Hearing that word coming from Nert’s mouth, and
his totally serious expression, made the team double over with laughter.

“Nert!” Shauna said, wiping tears from her eyes.
“Where did you hear that expression?”

“Did I not say that correctly?” Nert’s eyebrows
scrunched together with concern. “I was taught that expression by soldiers in
your American Third Infantry Division. At first my translator told me it was a slang
term for,” he looked away from Shauna with great embarrassment, “male
genitalia? Then it was explained to me that calling someone a ‘dick’ means they
are sort of a, a huge douchebag?”

Perkins laughed so hard she almost choked, and
Dave patted her back. “Oh,” she looked at the alien cadet when she was able to
talk again, “Nert, you truly brighten my day.”

“Is what I say funny because I am not saying it
correctly?” The cadet looked to Shauna for guidance, his lower lip quivering
slightly.

“No!” Shauna assured him. “You are using the
expression correctly, and you are a hundred percent right that this Bifft
character is a 
huge
 douchebag,” she
bit the inside of her cheek to stop herself from laughing. “What makes it extra
funny is that we do not expect to hear you using human slang.”

“Oh,” Nert perked right up at hearing Shauna’s
explanation. “Yes! The humor comes from the incongruity of-” He stopped because
he was smart enough to know jokes can’t be explained. Trying again, he simply
stated. “The humor comes from the fact that 
all

species can agree Bifft is a dick.”

“Nert,” Perkins shook her head, grinning
broadly. “Maybe you should tell Dave and Jesse what other expressions you
learned from those jokers in the Third Infantry, hmm?”

“Yes, Ma’am,” Nert grinned back. “They taught me
many interesting and useful sayings. For example, several of the male soldiers
kept saying they wanted something very badly, and my translator told me they
were using a term for a feline pet animal from Earth. That puzzled me, then I
learned what they wanted was some sweet pus-”

“
OK
!”
Dave patted Nert on the back, hard. “Let’s you, me and Jesse talk about that,
huh?”

 

Senior Cadet Bifft Colhsoon was indeed pissed,
monumentally pissed. Not only had a group of lowly humans suckered him into
leaving his assigned patrol area along the river, but when he broke the wargame
rules to run back to the river and chase the two human pilots, they had slipped
away and evaded him for hours until he had them cornered in a swampy area and
was about to send two of his team to circle behind and trap them. Just then,
the alarm had sounded to end the wargame, cheating him out of even a minor
victory! He had broken the rules and would be punished, and now he had nothing
to show for it. At least if he had captured the human pilots he might have been
able to justify his actions as preventing the humans from getting away with
cheating, since cheating is the 
only

possible way two slow and clumsy human pilots could have shot down three Ruhar
aircraft. “Come out!” He shouted, brandishing his rifle toward where he knew
the pair of primitive creatures were huddled behind a large tree.

“Ok!” Irene stood up, brushing muck off her
flightsuit’s legs from when she and Derek had been crouching behind a tree. She
waved her arms to show her pistol was still in the holster strapped to her hip.
“The wargame is over, anyway.”

“You got lucky, and you cheated!” Bifft shook a
fist at her and pointedly did not lower his rifle, even though the weapon could
only fire low-powered targeting laser beams. “I will be reporting your shameful
underhanded tactics to the wargame authorities.”

“Cheated?” Derek retorted hotly. “We cheated? 
You
 cheated! You’re supposed to be dead,
you punk-ass bitch. That’s why we were able to track your position but you couldn’t
locate us. The control system cut off your suit’s chameleon and stealth
features,” Derek looked at Irene as he spoke, as he had just then figured out
why the two of them had been able to evade the team of four Ruhar for hours.
While their flightsuits were not fully capable combat skinsuits, they did
provide enhanced speed and power, plus features for concealment. During the
chase, Derek had wondered why their flightsuits’ sensors had been able to
detect and pinpoint movement in the forest, while it appeared the four Ruhar
had only a vague idea where the humans were. Now it was obvious, as lights on
the chests of the four Ruhar were blinking red, indicating the wargame computer
had declared them all dead. The four, who Derek now could see for certain were
cadets, should not have been able to move after ‘dying’ in the game. “Dead
soldiers are not supposed to be chasing us. 
We

will be reporting 
your
 actions to the
referees.”

 

Derek did send a message to the wargame
computer, for the attention of the referee committee that enforced the rules
and investigated possible violations by both sides. All he did was transmit a
file containing sensor data after they left the Dobreh, showing he and Irene
had been tracked and pursued by four Yellow team soldiers, and including a
short video of their encounter with the cadets after the wargame ended. Derek’s
intention was to show the referees that, if the humans had done anything that
slightly bent the spirit if not the stated rules of the mock combat, the four
Yellow cadets had flagrantly violated the rules by continuing to participate in
the action after they had been declared dead. He figured the rules committee
would have to go easy on the humans when they saw how badly their own people
had cheated. He was correct, and he had no way of knowing Lieutenant Colonel
Perkins would have preferred to keep the whole incident quiet, and she was
still mildly pissed at him for acting without checking with her first. “I’m
sorry, Ma’am,” he replied as the assembled six humans waited for a Green team
transport to pluck them from an open area next to the river. A Yellow ship had
already picked up the four cadets, and another Yellow transport had landed
across the river next to the bog where the abandoned Dobreh sat partly
submerged in a bog. Through his zPhone, Derek had been watching a Ruhar dressed
in the blue and yellow uniform of an aircraft mechanic slogging through the bog
to the Dobreh, then crawling on top and around it. He could not hear the
communications from the mechanic to the airbase, but from the man’s gestures,
Derek guessed the mechanic was anything but pleased. “I wouldn’t have done
anything,” he stated truthfully for he assumed the wargame computer had noticed
the four ‘dead’ cadets breaking the rules by running around. “But that cadet
said he was going to report us for cheating, so I thought the best defense is a
good offense.”

Emily Perkins knew sports metaphors were as
popular in the military as war metaphors were in sports, and she found both to
be silly. War was not a game, and the even the most intense football game was
not combat. Quarterbacks could be hit hard by three-hundred pound linemen, but
no one was shooting at the quarterback, nor did the quarterback need to worry
about being targeted by laser-guided missiles from over the horizon. In spite
of her feelings on the subject, she avoided rolling her eyes at the pilot. “In the
future, check with me first. I am responsible for the actions of this team, so
any reporting should be done by me directly.”

“We did nothing wrong!” Irene protested while
touching Derek’s hand reassuringly.

“None of us did anything wrong, the operation
was flawless,” Perkins agreed. “That doesn’t mean there won’t be any blow-back
on us. We really crashed a real aircraft,” she used the word ‘we’ because she
had approved the crazy operation and Emily Perkins did not hang her people out
to dry when they went off-script in good faith. Striebich and Bonsu had
followed the spirit of the wargame by acting the way they would in real combat.
The fact that the wargame computer did not declare them dead after the hard
landing proved the desperate tactic of splashing their fighter across the river
surface had worked. “Nert,” she nodded toward the team’s official liaison
officer, “tells me that cadet leader you encountered is politically connected.
He could make a stink about us destroying a combat aircraft, even get your
flight certifications revoked or suspended.”

“What?” Irene screeched in outrage.

Perkins held up a finger to forestall an
argument. “That is why I didn’t want us reporting that cadet for violating the
wargame rules. The computer must know what he did, and the hamsters will deal
with it, or not,” she shrugged. “Now we have forced their hand by bringing the
incident to the referee committee,because they will have to address it, and the
cadet will blame us, fairly or not.” She paused to listen, and the entire group
turned toward the south where an aircraft was beginning to transition from
level flight to hover mode, its turbine engines pivoting to support the craft’s
landing next to the river. “Everyone,” she raised her voice to be heard over
the approaching roar of the aircraft, “let me do the talking when we get back
to base!”

 

“They cheated!”
Bifft jabbed a finger awkwardly close to Perkins’ face when they reached the
Yellow Team headquarters. “Hiding a frontline Dobreh fighter gunship in a
river is not an approved-”

“
Approved
?”
General Dase cut off Bifft’s argument with a withering stare. “Cadet, do you
think in real combat the Kristang will conform to an ‘
approved
’ set of tactics? I can assure you they will not; neither
will the Wurgalan or any other force we may encounter. 
If 
you are unfortunate enough to face the Kristang in battle, you
can expect they will hit you with every dirty trick they can imagine, and they
will not care whether you have a preset set of tactics to counter them. If your
rigid thinking is an example of what our military academies are teaching now,”
Dase shook his head sadly, “then our people had better become accustomed to
losing battles and territory. Lieutenant Colonel Perkins,” he turned to the
human leader, speaking slowly to pronounce her rank correctly as a sign of
respect. “Your team has, once again, proven to be resourceful, clever,” he
paused to see if that word translated correctly and continued when Perkins
nodded happily, “and courageous. If the operation had not worked as planned, the
repercussions to human involvement with our military could have been
long-lasting and detrimental to your people here on Gehtanu and beyond. While I
am not pleased to be on the losing side of your unexpected success,” his grin
reflected the chagrin he felt, “I am glad this was only a wargame exercise, so
we can learn much without getting anyone killed.”

“They destroyed a frontline combat aircraft!”
Bifft insisted, proving he did not know when to cut his losses and keep his
mouth shut.

“They did damage an aircraft, yes,” General Dase
agreed. “Cadet, you will find aircraft are frequently damaged in combat-”

“This was not real combat!” Bifft nearly
shouted. When he heard others gasp that he had interrupted a general officer,
he bowed his head. “I apologize, General Sir.”

Dase snorted and looked down his furry snout at
the cadet. “A wargame is only useful if the people involved act the way they
would in actual combat. Colonel Perkins, I understand your military
organization has a motto to the effect of ‘train the way you fight’?”

“We believe that very strongly, General Dase,”
Perkins replied with deadly seriousness.

Dase nodded approvingly. “We use technology to
make wargame exercises as realistic as possible, but if the people involved,”
he glared directly at Bifft, “do not act as if the combat is real, they learn
nothing. Tell me, Perkins, why did you plan to sacrifice your ground team and
possibly your only aircraft?”

Perkins had an answer ready, because she only
needed to tell the truth. “Because my team had multiple, significant
disadvantages in both physical ability and experience with your equipment and
tactics. The only possibility for us to contribute to mission success was to
use unconventional tactics. Otherwise, we could have stayed back at base like
some people wanted us to.”

“Quite so,” Dase said with admiration. “Cadet
Colhsoon, I suggest you throw away whatever texts the academy has assigned you
to read, and instead study the actions of Colonel Perkins, both today and from
the events of them activating maser projectors and destroying a Kristang
battlegroup. A 
real
 battlegroup,” he
added for emphasis. “As to the Dobreh fighter that was damaged,” he downplayed
the damage to the aircraft, which had been declared a total loss and was being
salvaged for parts. “The aircraft logs state it was not actually combat
capable, and should never have been assigned to participate in the exercise. It
was not, as you described, a ‘frontline combat aircraft’. It was a source of
spare parts and now it is fulfilling its true mission,” General Dase actually
winked to Perkins. “That our counterparts on the Green Team stuck the human
pilots with that barely-capable piece of,” the translator stumbled and Perkins
heard it say ‘junk’ in her ear but she thought Dase had used a stronger term.
“Is shameful and does not reflect well on us as a people. Colonel Perkins,”
Dase bowed slightly, “please convey my apologies to your pilots. Your team
succeeded despite having the deck stacked against you.”

Perkins bowed curtly to acknowledge the
compliment and her eyes twinkled. “Have you ever gone into actual combat 
without
 having the deck stacked against
you, General Dase?”

“No,” the Ruhar commander chuckled. “I have not.
Cadet Durndurff,” he addressed Nert. “You intend to continue serving as liaison
officer with Colonel Perkins?”

Nert brightened up immediately. “Oh, yes, Sir,
General Dase, Sir,” he replied with pride, throwing his shoulder back and
standing tall.

“You are a fortunate young man, and if you keep
your mind open and learn, I expect great things from you.”

“Oh,” Nert swallowed hard as he realized the
pressure on him. “Sir, I hope to serve with distinction, Sir,” he nervously
ignored Jesse’s instruction not to make a ‘sir sandwich’ when speaking to an
officer.

“Cadets, you are dismissed,” Dase sent Nert and
Bifft away with a curt nod and turned his full attention to Perkins, gesturing
her to follow him as he walked toward his command center. “I have a call with
the admiral in only a few minutes, but please walk with me and indulge me in a
question, Colonel. How did you get the idea to hide a fighter aircraft in a 
river
? Sensors aboard my aircraft that
were declared shot down did briefly detect a submerged anomaly, but the crews
ignored it. 
That
 will be a lesson
learned to go straight into the standard operations manual.”

“It was Captain Derek Bonsu’s idea,” Perkins
felt a jolt of pride that lowly humans had taught another lesson to the Ruhar.
“He was assigned to an airbase before and during the Kristang occupation,” she
smiled and did not mention that Bonsu had been taken off flight duty back then and
limited to being basically a gofer for the aircraft maintenance teams. “He
observed a Dobreh fighter being subjected to something you call a ‘water
immersion test’? He was surprised to see that after being in a water tank for
several hours, the fighter was able to pass flight tests and return to service
with minimal maintenance.”

 “Yes,” the general’s face lit up with
understanding. “I remember that. The company that builds the Dobreh was testing
one fighter from the batch delivered to Gehtanu, as part of a service contract.
That aircraft has what I think you call a ‘ditch switch’ to close external ports
in case of a water landing, but the purpose of that test is to demonstrate the
aircraft will not be damaged by flying through heavy rain, or by
fire-suppression equipment in a hangar.”

“Heavy rain?” Perkins’ eyebrows flew up. “That
must be some 
seriously
 heavy rain.”

“Our aircraft must be capable of operating in
extreme environments,” Dase explained, “because we never know what planet we
will be called on to occupy next.”

“Ah,” Perkins made a mental note to remember
that lesson; she could no longer afford to think only in terms of conditions on
one planet, whether that was Earth or Paradise, or Camp Alpha. She needed to
consider what her team would do under conditions she could barely imagine.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER SIX
Perkins tugged at the knees of her formal
uniform pants to straighten the crease, before she took a deep breath and held
up a hand to knock on the doorframe of the UNEF liaison office. On Earth, a
general officer would have a waiting room with at least one staffer to filter
visitors, but on Paradise such luxuries had been dispensed with. Even at UNEF
HQ in southern Lemuria, the tents and hastily-constructed prefab buildings used
as offices had no waiting areas, in most cases they didn’t even have doors. The
human military force on Paradise had shrunk by almost forty percent, due to
people seeing no point to being part of a military organization that no longer
had a military mission. Nearly four in ten UNEF soldiers had already opted to
put aside their uniforms and become civilians, mostly farmers although the
humans had a growing economy, and more people left the UN Expeditionary Force
every day. At current trends Perkins had seen in a classified report from UNEF
HQ, it was estimated that within two years only ten percent of humans on
Paradise would still be wearing a uniform. Elections were scheduled for the
next year, after which the military would be subject to the authority of
civilian leadership.

Civilian humans on Paradise, she had to shake
her head at that concept. The force was evaporating as their original mission
faded away into history. Emily had briefly considered hanging up her own
uniform, but at the moment she was having too much fun training with the Ruhar,
even if the majority of hamsters considered including her team in their
training to be a joke. As long as her little team wore UNEF patches on their
uniforms and participated in training, the Ruhar were reminded their continued possession
of the planet they called Gehtanu was thanks to the actions of humans. And that
forty thousand Ruhar owed their lives to Perkins and her team blowing up an
island to wipe out a group of Kristang commandos, while the hamsters with all
their superior genetics and technology had no idea that crack group of
commandos even existed. It was important for the Ruhar to be reminded that
humans could be useful, had been useful. So Emily and her team endured the
jokes, the insults both subtle and openly stated, and showed the UNEF flag to
represent all of humanity.

She rapped a hand on the doorframe and
straightened her shoulders. “You wished to see me, Ma’am?”

General Lynn Bezanson looked up from her tablet
and silently waved Perkins into the office, swallowing the coffee she had just
sipped. “Perkins, come in, sit down.” Saluting had mostly been dispensed with
inside the building, especially as Perkins and Bezanson were probably the only
two humans in the building that day. When Perkins and her team had accepted the
opportunity to train with the Ruhar army, Bezanson had moved from southern
Lemuria to be UNEF’s liaison to Chief Administrator Lohgellia, which is why Bezanson
had a small office in the main administration building, only one floor below Lohgellia’s
own suite of offices. “Coffee,” Lynn raised her plastic mug with the UNEF logo
and pointed to it. “Real coffee, can you beat that? It tastes real, anyway,
better than a lot of the Army coffee I’ve had on Earth,” she beamed with joy
and took another sip of the precious liquid. Supplies of coffee from Earth had
long ago been exhausted, and Lynn found the lack of the bitter brew almost more
difficult to accept than the loss of her favorite foods. For breakfast, she
loved hardboiled eggs with maple-flavored bacon, but while chickens on Paradise
were producing a decent supply of eggs, there was no bacon anywhere. Some
people were experimenting with making bagels, but without peanut butter, Lynn
didn’t see the point of eating a bagel. “Pour yourself a cup,” the general
gestured to the pot simmering in a corner of the office.

Perkins poured herself a half cup, noting the
pot was nearly empty and knowing coffee was still in very short supply on
Paradise. She sniffed then took a tentative sip. “Hmm, not bad. Better than
typical gas station coffee.”

Bezanson nodded with enthusiasm. “There’s cream,
real cream from Lemuria, in the fridge.”

Perkins had liked cream in her coffee but she
had been out of the coffee-drinking habit and knew cream also had to be in
short supply, especially in the planet’s capital city. “I’ll drink it black, I
want to savor it straight.”

“Take all you want, it’s due to you and your
team that we have coffee. And chocolate!” Lynn clapped her hands with delight.
“Did you read last week’s intel summary? We could have beef in six months.
Beef! I haven’t had a steak in,” she looked at the ceiling. “Too long. If we do
get beef, I am going to have corned beef and cabbage, even if I have to prepare
the beef myself.”

Perkins had read the report about Ruhar
scientists working to modify their own lab-grown meat for human consumption.
There were cows on Paradise, but they were exclusively for milk production.
Because the Ruhar considered killing animals for food to be barbaric, UNEF had
a ban on eating cows, or chickens, or the few other types of animals that had
made the long trip from Earth before the Kristang stopped shipping in supplies.
Of course there were occasional violations of the strict vegetarian policy, but
penalties were severe and the Ruhar were generally satisfied that the humans
who did eat animals were an anomaly. Now there was potential for meat to be
added to the human diet once again, even if the source of that meat had never
walked around on two or four legs. Perkins had tasted experimental lab-grown
chicken created by the Ruhar, and while it had a somewhat spongy mouthfeel, it
tasted like genuine chicken. Supposedly considerable progress had been made to
bring lab-grown chicken into production, and now the Ruhar scientists were
trying to create lab-grown beef. Perkins knew that officially, the Ruhar were
creating lab-grown meat and genetically engineering plants to grow coffee and
cocoa beans and other Earth delicacies, as a gesture of gratitude. Gratitude
for lowly humans having destroyed a Kristang battlegroup and then saving the
lives of forty thousand civilians. Perkins was sure gratitude played some part
in motivating the Ruhar effort, but the hamster scientists she had spoken with were
eager for the genetic engineering challenges of modifying native plants to
produce foods for human consumption. The human presence on Paradise provided a
convenient excuse for research efforts the Ruhar wanted to pursue anyway. “Beef
would be great,” Perkins agreed while savoring the coffee. “I am getting tired
of vegetable lasagna. How many UNars did this coffee cost you?” She asked,
concerned she might be sipping a treat the general had spent a week’s pay to
get. After initially relying on a barter system, the human economy on Paradise
now had a currency called the ‘UNar’, based on a bushel of corn. Barter was
still used for many agricultural products, but increasingly people were
conducting transactions, and thinking, in UNars.

“Nothing,” Bezanson shook her head. “These beans
aren’t from the coffee bean fields in Lemuria, this came from an experimental
batch. The botanists wanted an opinion from human taste buds before they
engineer a plant to crank out these beans.”

Perkins took another sip and swirled the hot
liquid around her tongue. “It’s got a nutty flavor, but there’s a very bitter
taste. It’s subtle.”

“Yeah, I told them that. They said the
bitterness is likely from the layers of pulp between the bean and the outer
coating; they’re going to work on it. They seemed very pleased,” she noted with
a smile, “when I told them how they need to adjust the flavor. I really threw
them a loop when I asked if they can make old-fashioned English tea, like
Orange Pekoe.”

“Can they?” Perkins asked hopefully.

“The hamster,” Bezanson glanced guiltily out her
open office door, “
Ruhar
, I asked is
taking that task as a personal challenge. It helps that his sister and her
family were on one of those ships you prevented the Kristang from blowing up.
So, thank you,” she raised her mug as a salute.

“You are welcome,” Perkins returned the salute.
“You didn’t call me here to talk about coffee, General.”

“No, I didn’t. First, there’s this,” Bezanson
opened a drawer and pulled out a small red box, tossing it to Perkins, who opened
it and looked up in surprise. “That’s right,” the general grinned broadly,
happy to be delivering good news for a change. “You’re a Lieutenant Colonel now
so you should be wearing the proper insignia. There will be a formal ceremony
at UNEF HQ in Lemuria later this week, I don’t think you should have to wait.
Sorry your team didn’t get a proper ceremony before, but, you were busy.”

“I, I’m honored, Ma’am.”

“You deserve that promotion ten times over, but
we already promoted one person directly to colonel, and that didn’t work out
too well,” a frown flashed across her face as she recalled the unknown fate of
Joseph Bishop. “We’re going to meet the burgermeister after lunch today, I want
you wearing your new rank insignia then.”

Emily Perkins stared at the silver oak leaves of
her new insignia, while she ran a thumb over one of the gold oak leaves on her
uniform. “I’ll put them on when we finish here, Ma’am.”

General Bezanson saw the frown on the junior
officer’s face. “What’s wrong?”

“It’s just,” Perkins looked at the UNEF patch on
her sleeve. “It feels odd to be promoted in a force that gets more irrelevant
every day. The intel summary said, what, seventeen hundred troops left the
service just in the past week?”

“Seventeen hundred thirty nine, yes,” Lynn glanced
at her tablet. “The previous week that number was over two thousand.”

“Ma’am, somehow it feels like we’re losing.”

“I understand how it feels, but HQ tells us that
people leaving the force is a good thing in the long run. The economists say
military personnel don’t generate as much economic activity, because much of
our time is devoted to what economists call ‘non-productive tasks’,” she
winked.

“I find that ironic,” Perkins said with a laugh.

“That what you and I do is considered
non-productive?”

“No,” Perkins shook her head. “That we now have 
economists
 at HQ.”

“Yes!” Bezanson agreed. “I notice very few of 
them
 have resigned their commissions.
Really, though,” her expression turned serious, “they’re right about the
benefits in the long run. Civilians are responsible for feeding themselves, or
they will be within two years if the resettlement plan works. What is most
important about the process HQ is calling ‘demilitarization’ is how it affects
the hamsters’ attitude toward our presence here. You and your team are showing
the flag and reminding them how useful humans can be to the Ruhar military, but
you also remind them that humans came to Paradise as a military occupation
force. The burgermeister tells me that when we get to the point where ninety percent
or more of the human population are civilians, the Ruhar view of us will
change. The average hamster won’t see humans as a defeated enemy force, they
will see us as a primitive species that got suckered and used by the Kristang.
They’ll see us as a people caught up in a war we didn’t start and don’t want.”

“Ha,” Perkins snorted. “The Ruhar brought the
war to 
us
. They saw us as primitive
natives about to be invaded by the Kristang, and their response tells us how
they would act if we were allies. They could have come to Earth, warned us
about the lizards and helped us prepare a defense. Instead, they knocked our
infrastructure back into the pre-industrial age and bugged out without ever
looking back to see what a mess they left behind.”

“The end result would have been the same, maybe
worse, if they had tried to help us. We would not have believed them, and even
if we knew the true nature of the Kristang right from the start, we would have
sent the Expeditionary Force out to serve them, because we wouldn’t have had a
choice. The Ruhar have been fighting this war for a very long time, since
before humans had civilization. Most of them are sick of fighting, they hit us
to get it over with as quickly and efficiently as possible,” she shrugged.

“If they are so tired of fighting, why are they
still doing it? They could drop back into a purely defensive posture,” Perkins
mused sourly.

“Colonel,” General Bezanson referred to the
other woman’s new rank, “you were an intel officer. If I suggested the hamsters
cease all offensive operations, what would be your assessment of that idea?”

Perkins frowned. “I’d tell you it wouldn’t work,
unless the Kristang stop being Kristang.”

“The lizards are caught up in a nice little civil
war now,” Bezanson observed. “Ruhar intel says they expect the war to continue
for another three to four years before winding down. Add on another two to five
years for whoever comes out of the war on top to rebuild and consolidate their
position. Then they’ll be spoiling for a fight with the Ruhar and Torgalau.”

“Why?” Perkins sighed. “They’ve been doing the
same thing for thousands of years, will they never learn?”

“Kristang warrior caste psychology and internal
politics require the strongest clans to constantly push outward to acquire new
territory. In part, that constant conflict gives their young, lower-ranking
warriors something to expend their energy on, rather than causing trouble for
clan leadership. Their society 
needs

war, or the entire reason for the warrior caste would disappear.”

“And then the Ruhar and Torgalau will get stuck
in the war whether they like it or not,” Perkins noted, while wondering how
true that really was. The Ruhar had originally taken the planet Gehtanu away
from the Kristang Black Trees clan, not because Paradise was strategically
important to the Ruhar defense posture, but because the Ruhar wanted more
territory for
 their
 growing
population. Humans had been exiled to the jungles of northern Lemuria, then
forced to move out because Ruhar real estate developers wanted to create
communities there, and the hamsters knew their property values would be lowered
if dangerous humans were in the area. The Ruhar were not innocents in the
ongoing conflict, and they certainly were not good-guy saviors of humanity. The
actions of the hamsters at Earth proved the Ruhar only cared about their own
strategic interests, and had given little thought about how lowly humans would
be affected by being dragged into the endless war. Perkins did not fault the
Ruhar for putting their own interests first, but the incident caused her to
remind herself, every time she had dealings with the technologically-superior
species who owned the planet, that the fate of humans meant little to the Ruhar
and their federal government. “Our civvies here will play the part of innocent
farmers, while my team reminds the Ruhar that they owe us?” Perkins guessed.

“Something like that, yes,” Bezanson agreed.
“Your team also keeps us in the game. If the hamsters are our patrons here and
they’re going to keep fighting, we want the ability to defend ourselves.
Because we sure as hell can’t count on the hamsters protecting us, if they
really get pushed by the Kristang or whoever.” Even after Perkins and her team
destroyed a Kristang battlegroup and secured control of the planet for the
Ruhar, the distant federal government had still wanted to give the planet back
to the Kristang, and leave humans at the mercy of the lizards. Discovery of
valuable Elder artifacts had persuaded the Ruhar to retain control of the
planet they called Gehtanu, but Bezanson knew that situation could change in a
heartbeat. If the Ruhar suffered a serious military setback in that part of the
sector, they might be forced to pull their battlegroup away from Paradise. If
that happened, Lynn did not think the unlikely prospect of finding more Elder
goodies would make the Ruhar determined to keep the planet. Already, the
failure of Ruhar scientists to find even a single additional Elder artifact was
causing rumblings in their military, about the value of keeping a battlegroup
stationed at such a backwater world. Chief Administrator Logellia had told Lynn
that in a few years the growing population of Gehtanu, plus the substantial
investments the planet was attracting, would soon cross a threshold where it
would be politically poisonous for the Ruhar federal government to abandon that
world. But that threshold had not been reached yet, and the number of ships
assigned to the Gehtanu battlegroup had shrunk every time the task force
rotated commanders. “Enough depressing talk,” Lynn slapped the table
emphatically, and pulled two more boxes from the open drawer. She lifted the
lid of the first box, displaying a dozen chocolates. “Latest batch from Ruhar
labs, these in the center are chocolate-dipped caramels,” she announced as she
took one of the delicacies and popped it in her mouth.

“Mmmm,” Perkin’s eyelids fluttered in ecstasy as
she savored a caramel. “It tastes just like real chocolate!”

“I’ve been challenging them to make maple syrup,
but the only sample we have left is half a bottle that got cooked pretty badly
while it was in the jungle,” she noted with disappointment. She had tasted that
bottle but it already had an off flavor, so she returned it to the owner and
instructed the Ruhar not to use it as a flavor example. “Now the fun part,” she
pulled the lid off the second box, exposing a stack of Velcro-backed patches. “This
will be your new unit symbol, we’re calling your team the ‘Mavericks’.”

Perkins picked up one of the patches, studying
it. “Mavericks, huh?”

“The idea came from one of the referees from
that last wargame; she said your team was the element the Yellow commander
failed to account for. Also,” Bezanson cocked her head. “You kind of have a
reputation for going off and doing whatever you feel like, and maybe telling HQ
about it later. You could at least send us a postcard, Perkins.”

“Uh huh,” Perkins’ cheeks reddened slightly, knowing
she could not argue with the general’s comment. “I guess ‘Mavericks’ is
appropriate. Do the hamsters know what that word means?”

“Probably not,” Bezanson made a mental note to
check on that. “You like it?”

“My team will 
love
 it,” Perkins replied happily. Her team were still wearing the
symbols of their old units that were now increasingly irrelevant. It was time
for Colter and Czajka, for example, to replace their 10
th
 Infantry
insignia, as they had not served in what was left of the 10
th
 on
Paradise for a long time. “So, the Ruhar don’t have any hard feelings about the
results of that wargame?”

“Quite the opposite. The Yellow Team commander
wrote a glowing evaluation of your team, and recommended you be approved for an
offworld training assignment.”

“
Offworld
?”
Perkins gasped.

Lynn Bezanson’s grin was almost wider than the
one lighting up Perkins’ face. “Specifically, a fleet assignment. They have a
dedicated training ship, an old cruiser. If you’re interested-”

“
Interested
?
Hell yes we’re interested!” Perkins knew she didn’t need to ask her team, they
were all eager for an opportunity to get aboard a Ruhar warship.

“You’d be away two or three months, that’s the
length of a typical training cruise.”

“Sign us up!” She would need to concern herself
later with the logistic details of humans being aboard a Ruhar ship.

“It’s going to be a lot of work, just to qualify
for spaceborne duty,” the general warned the overeager new lieutenant colonel.

“Spaceborne?”

“Spaceborne Army,” Bezanson explained. “That’s
the closest translation of the Ruhar term. The Ruhar don’t have a distinction
between soldiers based on land or ships, like we do with the Army and Marine
Corps, because all their troops rotate between dirtside and shipboard. The
training cruiser arrives here in four months, thereabouts, and you have a lot
of work to do before you can be space duty certified. That includes working in
spacesuits, in a zero-gee environment. Your pilots need to transition to flying
a dropship, they will have the most challenging training. All of you will need
training to help with damage control aboard the ship.”

“Of course. Just the six of us?” Perkins asked.
Many people wanted to join her unit, but to date, UNEF had not allowed her to
add personnel to her accidental team. UNEF HQ did not want to dilute the
positive publicity of her team by adding people who had not already destroyed a
battlegroup and saved thousands of Ruhar lives.

“Seven,” Bezanson corrected. “Cadet Durndurff
will be coming with you.”

“Oh?” Perkins expressed surprise. After the
wargame, Nert had returned to his studies at the military academy. He sent them
messages regularly, but he was too busy for anyone to visit.

“Going aboard the ship for a training cruise is
a regular part of the academy’s program. Usually a training cruise is reserved
for third and fourth-year students, but they will make an exception for Nert,
if you want him with you.”

“General,” Perkins responded carefully, “we all
love his fuzzy face, and having him with us would smooth things for us aboard
that ship, but-”

“But?” Bezanson asked with a raised eyebrow.

“Look, when the burger-when his aunt Baturnah requested her
nephew join my team, I was not happy about the prospect of babysitting a teenager.
Since then, he has proven to be very useful to us, my whole team loves having
him around, and he’s got a great future ahead of him.”

“You haven’t got to the ‘but’ yet, Colonel.”

“But,” Perkins paused, “I am concerned his
service with us is not good for 
him
.
We take up a lot of his time, if he misses assignments while serving as my
liaison officer he has to make it up when he returns to the academy. He tells
us he is famous now at school, and that puts a lot of pressure on him. Plus,”
her expression turned angry, “some of the cadets are mean to him because he
associates with humans.”

“Perkins, I appreciate your concern. I’ve met
Nert and I like the little guy too-”

“He’s not so little anymore,” Perkins
interjected.

“-and he’s a teenager. If his classmates didn’t
tease him about spending time with us, they’d pick on him about something
else.”

“True enough,” Perkins admitted. She held up one
of the Mavericks patches. “Ok if I send one of these to Nert? He’d be tickled,
well, his skin is already pink under the fur,” she laughed and Bezanson laughed
with her.

“Perkins, it will be your call whether Nert will
be with you or not. The academy hasn’t made the offer to him, so if you decide
against the idea he won’t know the decision was yours.”

“I know Nert, if he found out the Mavericks are
going on a training cruise without him, he would be heartbroken. All right, I
need to think about how to make this work, but it sure would make life easier
for us if he’s with us.”

“Decision made, then,” the general concluded.
“Perkins, I like that you are considering the impact on your liaison officer,
but you need to prioritize the benefits to humanity, and UNEF in particular.
Your team will be the first to get an opportunity to go offworld, everyone’s
eyes will be on you. Any screw-ups will reflect badly on all humans. If Cadet
Durndurff can make your job a bit easier, you need to take that opportunity.”

 

“Do I 
want

to go offworld?” Jesse’s eyes bulged as the idea of being an astronaut, a space
soldier, sank in. “I don’t know about y’all,” he pointed to his companions,
“but I plan to carpe that diem until it begs for its 
momma
.”

Perkins had to laugh with the rest of the team.
“Colter, I appreciate your enthusiasm. Let’s see if you are as happy about the
idea when you’re stuck in a hamster spacesuit and they’re spinning you around a
hundred RPMs in zero gee.”

“Don’t you worry none about me, Ma’am. At the
state fair, I’m the guy who eats corndogs on the roller coaster while everyone
else is losing their lunch.” He pointed a thumb toward Czajka. “Ski’s the guy
you have to worry about.”

“
Me
?
When did you ever see me on a roller coaster?”

“Don’t need to,” Jesse shook his head with
exaggerated sadness. “Remember when we was in that Blackhawk over Dogon Dawa in
Nigeria?”

“Oh for-you got sick too! That helo almost
chucked upside down in that storm,” Dave explained. “If we hadn’t been strapped
in, all of us would have fallen out the door.”

“All I can say is, 
your
 breakfast ended up in 
my

boots,” Jesse grinned. “Don’t worry, Colonel,” he addressed their leader. “I’ll
keep an eye on Ski if his wittle baby tummy gives him any trouble.”

“People, in all seriousness, this assignment is
going to be tough. No humans have been through this training, so we don’t know
whether we can even get through the program. The next four months could be
rough.”

Shauna crossed her arms defiantly. No hamster
was going to keep her from serving aboard a starship. “No humans ever wiped out
a lizard battlegroup-”

“Or nuked an island,” Irene nudged her friend
playfully.

“That too,” Shauna admitted with a sheepish grin.
“Spaceborne Army, huh? I like the sound of that.” She unconsciously touched the
infantry patch on her uniform, wondering what a Spaceborne Army insignia looked
like. She could send the question to Nert, he would surely know. “When do we
get started?”

“Eight days,” Perkins replied happily, seeing
the enthusiasm of her team. “Until then, you’re all on leave, so enjoy
yourselves and keep in touch.”

 

“Hey Ski!” Dave turned to see Pete Sanchez
elbowing through the crowd toward him. The bar was packed even at mid-day, the
popularity of the establishment was more a function of there still being few
places in Lemuria that had a supply of alcohol, rather than the quality of the
beverages served in the bar.

“Pete! Damn, good to see you,” Dave called out,
pointing to a narrow space next to him at the bar. It was good to see a
familiar face, as Dave had found the bar distressingly full of strangers
including a lot of the former Indian military. Pete Sanchez had served in
Sergeant Joe Bishop’s Embedded Observation Team at the village of Teskor, way
back when UNEF first landed on Paradise. Dave had gotten into contact with Pete,
after the Ruhar finished interrogating everyone who served closely with Bishop.
Other than both serving with Bishop, the two originally had little in common,
but soon developed a friendship during a rather raucous fishing trip up in the
mountains. That fishing trip also introduced Dave to Pete’s entrepreneurial
side, with that soldier bringing along portable chiller units to store the fish
they caught. While Dave expected the fishing action would all be
catch-and-release because neither humans nor Ruhar could eat the native life on
Paradise, Pete had quickly explained why he had chosen that particular lake for
the fishing trip. Years before, that lake had been part of a planned resort, so
the lake was stocked with fish from the Ruhar homeworld. While plans for the
resort had failed, the fish had thrived and Pete planned to catch, clean and ship
out as many fish as they could catch. Pete had an arrangement with a UNEF pilot
who diverted to the lake each morning and took the previous day’s catch to fly
up to a Ruhar settlement in northern Lemuria. The Ruhar had a general distaste
for eating animals but some made an exception for tasty fish and they paid well.
Pete split the money with Dave, Jesse and three others, putting a nice chunk of
money in the wallet stored on Dave’s zPhone. “You still got the fishing thing
going?”

“No,” Pete shook his head. “Too many people went
up there, the Ruhar put a stop to it because we were wiping out the fish population.
Raj,” he caught the bartender’s eye. “Two beers for me and my friend here.”

“Thanks, man. Sorry about the fish.”

“Ah,” Pete waved a hand dismissively. “I’ve got
another thing going.” He took two bottles from the bartender and handed one to
Dave. “You like it?”

The bottle was not glass but it was cold, and
one sip told Dave it was real beer, not the rotgut alcohol distilled out of
whatever agricultural leftovers could be found. He turned the bottle around to
see a smiling, straw-hat wearing hamster on the label. “Lester Cornhut’s
Paradise Pale Ale,” he read the label. “Hey, I know that name from somewhere.”

Pete grinned and took a big swig of beer. “Uh
huh, he is the mayor of Teskor, the village our Embedded Observation Team was
stationed when we went feet dry down here with Bishop.”

“Damn, Lester Cornhut is his real name? I
thought you were joking,” Dave laughed. “That hamster is brewing beer now?”

“Yeah, for me,” Pete puffed his chest with
pride. “We kept in touch after UNEF pulled us out. He invested in expanding
capacity of his processing plant, but with farms popping up all over the
planet, prices crashed and he was looking for an opportunity. I had been
brewing my own beer, so we got together. Now, part of the land around Teskor
has been planted with hops and barley, and we’re adding wheat for our summer
ale.”

“Shit, man, when do you have the time for all
this?”

“I quit the force a month ago.”

That surprised Dave. “Wow.” He lowered his
voice. “Are you sure about that?”

“Best decision I made since we landed here,”
Pete declared. “Dave, I gotta ask you, are 
you

sure about staying in the Army? I know you had fun in that wargame, but, that’s
over, so what are you going to do now? If the ExForce had a real mission, I
might still be wearing the uniform, but I don’t see the point to playing
soldier,” he shook his head sadly and drained the last of the beer, “when the
hamsters won’t let us fight.”

“We’ve gotten into fights,” Dave replied coolly,
feeling offended.

“Yeah, and you guys seriously 
kicked ass
,” Pete’s admiration was
clear. “But, Ski, come on, you got into those fights on your own initiative,
not because the hamsters trusted you in combat.” He waved a hand for another
couple of beers. “You can’t count on stumbling into action, not when the
hamsters treat us like pets. What’s next for you?”

“I don’t know,” Dave answered truthfully. Pete
was correct that, with the wargame over, Perkins planned to argue for her team
to have a continued role serving alongside Ruhar military units, but even she
had not been optimistic. The initial enthusiasm of the Ruhar army to relearn
infantry tactics with human advisors providing guidance had faded. Upper
echelons of the Ruhar military were insulted by the idea they could learn
anything from primitive humans, and considered the possibility of another
straight-up infantry battle to be remote. Most of the human advisors had been
relegated to the role of observers, and many quit after being insulted too many
times by their reluctant Ruhar hosts. “The Colonel got us an assignment
offworld, for a couple months. After that, I don’t know,” he admitted.

“The Colonel, yeah,” Pete nodded slowly. “Emily
Perkins, right? Dave, look around, what do you see here, that you don’t usually
see much of?”

“Uh,” Dave craned his neck to scan the crowd,
then turned back to the bar. “We don’t get drinks much at base,” he noted,
already thinking he needed to find a way to bring a case of Paradise Pale Ale
back to the team.

“Forget the drinks. Women,” Pete announced
quietly. “There are 
women
 here. Not
just this bar, the whole area of southern Lemuria the hamsters moved us to.”

“Oh, yeah.” Women were the first thing Dave
noticed when he walked into the bar. Clusters of women sitting at tables, with
a much larger number of men trying to catch their eyes, but not approaching
unless invited. With far too many men seeking far too few women, any guy who
acted like a jerk had zero chance. When Dave came into the bar, he had been
surrounded by people eager to hear about his role in the wargame, the
difference between Ruhar skinsuits and Kristang rigid armor, and what it was
like to kick hamster ass even if it had only been a game. Dave was happy to
boast about his recent adventure, but he had been disappointed that few of the
women seemed interested in hearing his stories, and he had not been able to
speak one-on-one with any women.

“Up at base, there are just the six of you?”
Pete asked, and Dave nodded. “Last time we talked, Jesse was with Shauna, and
the two pilots were hooking up?”

“It’s more serious than hooking up,” Dave was
uncomfortable discussing the subject.

“Whatever. My point is, that leaves you with the
Colonel as the only unattached woman on your team, and 
that’s
 never gonna happen, right? It’s great that you’re loyal to
your team, and you guys have saved our asses down here twice, but you can’t
count on that happening forever, you know? You need to think about yourself.
Listen, Lester and I are thinking of expanding, brewing a sort of beer for the
Ruhar. We’ve got the facilities now, and the human market is small, but more
hamsters are arriving on this dirtball every day, and they need something to
drink other than water. You’re a hard worker, you’re cool under pressure, 
and
 you’re a genuine hero to the
hamsters here,” Pete lightly punched Dave’s shoulder to emphasize his point.
“Make that work for you. I’m serious. The Paradise economy is growing and there
are opportunities out there, but you’ve got to act quickly because some other
guy is hustling for the same break. You’ll think about it?”

“Yeah,” Dave agreed while tipping back a bottle
to drink, though his attention was on a table of five women who were ignoring
him and all the men around him. Two of the women were visibly pregnant, a sight
Dave still found startling. He knew that women having babies was a good sign,
an indication that humans were optimistic about their future on Paradise. “I’ll
think about it.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER SEVEN
“Best behavior,” Derek whispered as he wiped a
clean rag over the copilot armrests in the cockpit of their shiny new Dodo
dropship, for which they had each just received their Type Rating to fly. “
Best
 behavior,” he insisted.

“You’re worried about me?” Irene replied innocently.
“I am a model of politeness.”

“Yes, sweetheart,” Derek tapped the pilot’s
head, “you are the model for what 
not

to do.”

“It won’t be my
fault if this jerk-”

“This 
honored
guest
,” Derek said slowly and patiently for emphasis, as he squeezed her
shoulder and made her look up at him. “Irene, I’m serious. This guy is going to
bait us, insult us, make cracks about how primitive we are. We 
can’t
 take the bait.”

“That’s easy for you to say, I’ll be doing the
flying.”

“That’s because the hamster asked for you,
you’re the hero who flew a stolen Buzzard around with a portable drill rig and
destroyed a lizard battlegroup. All I did was get shot down and carry my pilot
across the countryside. Look, this guy asking for you is a form of praise. Like
Colonel Perkins said, it’s an opportunity to make a good impression, but it’s
also a danger that we will screw up and give the hamsters an excuse to bounce
us off this mission. I am not worried one bit about your flying us up to the
ship, I am concerned your mouth might get us in trouble. Take my grandmother’s
advice; you can be as rude as you want, as long as you 
act
 polite. Got it?”

Irene squeezed his hand. “I’ll be on my best
behavior. But after this flight, you’re taking me to the gym on that cruiser
and I’m hitting the punching bag 
hard
.”

“That’s the spirit. And don’t worry, I got your
back. If this hamster is really a jerk, I’ll take him out back, beat the shit
out of him.”

“If anyone gives him a beat-down, it will be 
me
. Oh, crap, here’s the asshole now,”
she announced as she plastered a smile on her face.

 

“You will hear a lot of noise and experience
some vibration, I will be performing a ‘run up’ to test that the engines are
capable of delivering max power for takeoff,” Irene explained, forcing the
smile to remain rigid on her face. The dropship’s engines put out so much
thrust that the ship would rocket down the runway dragging its skids along the
ground, so the engines had a special ‘run up’ mode where the turbine blades
flattened in their housing and churned the air without providing much thrust.

“Do what you need to, please,” the Ruhar
government bureaucrat Arnu Charl put on a grin he intended the lowly human to
see was false, as a sign of his discomfort having to trust a primitive creature
with his life. “I am most concerned about your ability to safely operate this
very sophisticated airspace craft. I know the air control system can remotely
override your commands if you get us into trouble but,” he flashed another
intentionally thin smile, “that would be unfortunate. Hmm, I should adjust this
seat,” Charl scrunched his neck down as if he had trouble seeing out the
forward window displays. “We Ruhar are, of course, much taller than the average
human. I mean no insult, of course,” he added to ensure the pilot understood
his intended insult.

Irene knew Derek had already adjusted the
copilot seat down to fit the Ruhar who was, in fact, taller than most humans,
so she ignored the hamster’s attempt to bait her and she didn’t even need to
bite her lip to stifle a sharp reply. Officially, Arnu Charl was riding with
them only to observe the primitive humans in action. Unofficially, everyone
knew he was looking for an excuse to squash the whole idea of humans being
aboard a Ruhar ship, even an old training ship. In a minute, Irene would be
taking the Dodo off the ground and up into low orbit, to rendezvous with a
cruiser. When she was flying, in command of the supremely powerful dropship,
she could ignore anything. While she adjusted the controls to begin running up
the engines at first only to seventy percent power, she could see in her
peripheral vision the hamster was reaching down under the seat with both hands,
with his eyes watching the engine power levels on the copilot display. She
nudged the throttles forward to only twelve percent power, making sure the
turbine fan blades were indeed feathered, then when she was satisfied
everything was operating perfectly, she advanced the throttles slowly and
smoothly toward the preset seventy percent limit. To her right, the hamster
grunted as he bent down to reach the seat controls, fumbling around under the
seat bottom.

“Sir, be careful!” She warned. “The ergonomic
controls for the seat are on the right side, not under-NO!” Irene shouted in
panic as with her left hand she hit the master switch to kill power, and her
right hand reached across to grab the Ruhar’s arm. With her seat harness
properly tightened, she couldn’t reach across the gap, so she was unable to
prevent the disaster that followed.

The cockpit seat ejection mechanism in a Dodo
was different from the arrangement on the truly huge dropship humans called a
‘Whale’, it was the same as the system aboard the small ‘Vulture’ gunships. The
idiot civilian had unintentionally tugged on the ejection handle in his search
for the controls to lower the already-low seat, and fortunately for him, Irene
and Derek, he had not first flipped the manual switch to allow the handle to
move, and anyway Irene had not yet armed the ejection system. If he had
successfully engaged the ejection sequence, the system would have accepted his
command rather than first wondering why in the 
hell
 some idiot wanted to eject from a perfectly good airspace
craft that was still sitting on the ground. Afterward, the AI aboard the Dodo
would have puzzled over why the ejection system had been engaged, but
generations of Ruhar pilots had demanded full control over ejection, so the AI
was not allowed to intervene. Engaging the ejection mechanism would have caused
the cockpit door to slam violently closed, then the sturdy brackets that
connected the cockpit to the airframe would have been burned through instantly
by nanocord that flashed into plasma. With the cockpit section free of the
remainder of the Dodo, it would have rocketed upward and away, climbing well
clear of the doomed ship that might be in danger of exploding. Eventually, when
the onboard AI determined it was safe, the rocket thrust would cut off and a
nanofiber parachute would be deployed, with the AI warping the fabric to steer
the cockpit to a relatively safe landing. Irene and the Ruhar would be alive,
though likely injured from the sudden jolt of the rockets firing.

Fortunately, none of that happened, because the
Ruhar had not been trained how to use the ejection mechanism, because the designers
of the system had idiot-proofed it as best they could, and because Irene as
Pilot-In-Command had not armed the system at all. Unfortunately, there was
another reason why the idiot hamster had not yanked upward on the ejection
handle; his fumbling hands had found another handle that was just as dangerous.

“Derek!” Irene screamed as she watched in terror
what was happening to the copilot seat. Somehow, the Ruhar had located and
pulled the handle for the inflatable life raft tucked under the seat cushion,
and that raft was now expanding at an impressive rate, forcing the seat upward
and threatening to crush the hamster against the cockpit ceiling. Without
thinking, Irene pounded her seat harness release button with her left fist and
reached down into her right boot for a survival knife strapped there. With
knife in hand, she began frantically sawing at the raft material, but it was a
smart nanofabric and sealed itself rapidly behind the blade. In desperation,
she began pushing the knife blade sideways, creating a larger rent and argon
gas hissed out under high pressure, blasting her in the face and forcing her
eyes almost closed. At a fearful yelp from the Ruhar who was trying and failing
to release the straps holding into the seat that was now a deathtrap, she
looked up into his pleading eyes. “
Derek
!”

“Got it got it got it got it,” the copilot
replied unseen below her field of vision as the cockpit swirled with dust
kicked up by the blast of argon gas coming from the inflation canister of the
raft. “Ok! Stopped it!” Derek exulted as his questing fingers located the tab
to deflate the raft. They had practiced how to inflate and deflate a raft in
training, but that course had never covered the possibility of deflating a raft
when it wasn’t yet fully deployed. The raft designers had never considered that
possibility either, their well-founded assumption had been that anyone wanting
a raft needed it to be inflated 
now
,
as soon as possible and that no one would ever change their freakin’ minds in
the middle of the process! In fact, all Derek did was yank open a panel on the
side of the raft to let the expanding inert gas out, but the canister was still
releasing more of the stored argon and the raft was filling faster than gas
could come out the rather small flap.

What saved the Ruhar’s life was a combination of
Derek opening the flap, Irene’s knife creating a hole that required nanobots to
rush there to seal the rip, and the raft’s fabric getting caught on the
underseat mechanisms that snagged and tore more rents in the fabric. Between
those three sources of tears in the fabric, the raft began to sag and within seconds,
collapsed as the argon supply was exhausted. At the point, the Ruhar who had
nearly had his neck snapped by being forced against the cockpit ceiling yelped
again, because the seat lurched down and forward. The force of the raft
inflating had broken the brackets under the seat, snapping it free of the floor
and it fell and sagged forward, bashing Charl’s face against the instrument
panel. “Help!” He called as the significant weight of the seat itself had him
trapped, his furry nose squashed against a display screen.

“Irene,” Derek grunted as he stood up and tried
to lever the heavy broken seat backward, “I could use some help here.”

Irene stuffed the knife back in her boot before
she stood up. The last thing they needed was another hazard cluttering up the
cockpit floor that was already covered with billowing raft fabric and jagged
broken bits of the seat attachment mechanism. With the two humans pulling and
the Ruhar pushing as best he could, they got the seat awkwardly pulled back far
enough so Irene could reach around with one hand and release the seat straps.
Freed from the seat, the Ruhar lost no time in squeezing between the seat and
instrument panel, rolling onto the floor in an undignified manner. Blood
streamed down from his nose and he moved his head stiffly, holding it to one
side.

“Is your neck stiff?” Irene asked with genuine
concern. “Here, let me take off your helmet, the weight can’t be good for your
neck.”

With the helmet off, the Ruhar gingerly moved
his head side to side and back and forth, testing what range of motion he had.
“Nothing broken,” he announced with a glare toward Irene, and her mouth went
dry as she imagined what the Ruhar would say to the accident investigation
team. Somehow, the almost fatal incident was going to be her fault and in a
way, she agreed with that conclusion. She was in command of the aircraft, so
anything that happened aboard was her responsibility. Charl was going to say
she should have warned him not to pull the handle to inflate the raft, as if
she had ever imagined anyone would or even 
could

be that incredibly stupid!

As suddenly as the Ruhar’s intense glare bored
into her, that expression was replaced by what Irene knew was sheepish
embarrassment, unmistakable even though the body language was on an alien face.
“We could, um, ha ha, keep this to ourselves, I hope?” The Ruhar asked,
laughing nervously.

Irene looked around the disarray in the cockpit,
at the torn fabric of the raft, the snapped and twisted pieces that had secured
the seat to the floor, aand the smear of blood on the display screen. The Dodo
would need to be taken off the flight line and back to a hangar to have the
seat replaced and the airframe inspected for damage. No way could anyone
conceal the incident. And then she realized something; Ruhar flight recorders
captured everything that happened in a cockpit, voice, video and sensor data.
That recorder would show the accident investigators that she warned the Ruhar
not to screw around under the seat, but he had ignored her. Greatly relieved,
she stepped backward through the cockpit door, waving the Ruhar to follow her
and offering a hand so he didn’t trip over broken parts littering the floor.
“Sir, what matters is that you are not injured, that we can see. You should be
examined by base medical personnel, to assure you do not have internal
injuries.”

“Ah, ha, ha,” Charl swallowed hard, knowing he
was going to be in big trouble. “Thank you, I-rene, Der-ek,” he pronounced
their names slowly. “I will see that you are assigned another airspace craft.
Your quick reaction to the,” he searched for a word that would not further
embarrass himself, “unexpected incident, is much appreciated. You have demonstrated
your skill and mastery of this craft, I do not need to accompany you up to the
ship,” he gave her a weak and sheepish smile. Then he waggled a finger
accusingly. “That raft should not be capable of being inflated while it is
still attached to the seat! I must speak with the manufacturer of that system!”

“I agree completely, Sir,” Irene nodded with
sympathy. “What if the system deployed on its own and caused the pilots to lose
control? Battle damage might also cause the raft to inflate at the wrong time.
We will add a note to that effect in our squawk list, Sir.”

 

An hour later, with the Ruhar at the base
hospital and the Dodo having been towed back to a hangar, Irene was filling out
accident report forms on a tablet while she talked with Perkins via zPhone.
“Yes, Ma’am, I think that Ruhar is going to be just fine. His pride is hurt
more than anything. The hamst-” she caught herself from using the derogatory
slang while in earshot of aliens at the airbase, “Ruhar here are anxious to get
us away, Derek is on the flightline checking out our replacement ship now.”

“The ship you were supposed to fly, is it
damaged badly?” Perkins asked anxiously. A minor incident could be mostly swept
under the rug, with the airbase maintenance team quietly replacing broken
parts. But if the airframe had sustained damage and the dropship needed to be
pulled out of service for an extended time, the incident could cause a big
stink that senior Ruhar would be eager to blame on ignorant humans who should
not be allowed to fly in the first place.

“No, Ma’am,” Irene reported happily. “The crew
chief told me this is the damnedest thing he’s ever seen in all his years, and
even he didn’t think it was possible for a raft to inflate while still under a
seat. This may lead to a new safety regulation.”

“Great, as long as nobody ever says we humans
are the cause of needing to idiot-proof something.”

“I think all the Ruhar here at the base would
very much like to pretend this never happened. Soon as these forms are
completed, I’ll help Derek preflight our new bird, and we should be up there
with only a seven-hour delay.”

“Seven hours?” Perkins asked, surprised and
dismayed.

“Yes, Ma’am, the cruiser’s orbit has taken it
away from us, so our next good launch window is not for a couple hours,” Irene
explained patiently.

“Goddamit,” Perkins cursed with exasperation.
“Why isn’t the future like 
Star Trek

where you never have to think about the reality of orbital mechanics?”

“I’ll get right on that, Colonel,” Irene
laughed.

“
Can

you launch now? I don’t give a shit about your fuel consumption.”

“We could, yes, it’s not normal procedure-”
Irene started to explain.

“To hell with normal procedure, then,” Perkins
cut off her pilot’s explanation. “Tell them you are practicing combat rendezvous
maneuvers, whatever bullshit you want to call it. I’ll get it cleared with
their air controller. I want you in the air ASAP, before the hamsters change
their minds, or some higher-ups decide they need a full investigation. That
cruiser is not waiting for us, it will be leaving whether we’re on it or not.”

“Yes, Ma’am,” Irene agreed with enthusiasm.

“Striebich,” Perkins’ voice softened. “We dodged
a bullet today. If that Ruhar had been seriously injured or killed, the
hamsters wouldn’t care that it was his own stupid fault.”

“You’re right, Colonel. He could have been
killed. A couple more seconds,” she didn’t need to finish the thought. Right
before Derek had ripped open the tab to deflate the raft, the Ruhar had been
pressed up against the ceiling, his neck at an awkward angle. Irene had feared
her passenger was already dead at that point. Of all the crazy, stupid things
that had happened during her flying career, someone inflating a raft inside the
cockpit was beyond not only her experience, it had been beyond her imagination.
“Win ugly?” She suggested.

“Win ugly? All right,” Perkins sighed from the
heavy weight of responsibility. “I guess you can’t argue with getting one in
the ‘W’ column. Damn it, if anything goes wrong out there, we are not getting a
pass from our patrons.”

“We all understand that, Colonel. We are all
doing our best.”

“That’s not good enough. I don’t mean to be a
hardass, Striebich, but we need to consider not only what will go wrong but
what 
could
 go wrong.”

Irene didn’t think she would ever have
considered a life raft to be anything that could be a threat, but she didn’t
want to argue right then. “Captain Bonsu and I still have three combat traps
each to perform after we get back from the cruiser, Ma’am.”

“Traps?”

Derek gave Irene the side-eye because she used
pilot slang too often around non-pilots. “Flying a dropship into a docking
bay,” Irene gestured the action with her hands, “until it is caught, or
‘trapped’, by the emergency restraint system. We need to perform three traps at
high-speed to qualify for spaceflight duty. That’s where our focus needs to be
right now.”

“Understood. You did well, Striebich, you and
Bonsu. I’ll see if I can smuggle some debriefing fluid upstairs with me, so we
can celebrate when the two of you are carrier qualified.”

 

“Are you nervous, Captain?” Jesse asked, noting
the pilot had been tugging at a lock of her hair as she studied whatever was on
her tablet. “Flying up to the cruiser should be a piece of cake for you, right?
It’s no different from you docking with one of those practice platforms in
orbit like you’ve been doing.”

“Thanks, Jess-Sergeant Colter,” she had been
about to use the first names they’d gotten used to during their unauthorized
and informal service together, but switched to military protocol when she
caught Perkins with the corner of one eye. “It 
is
 different. Those big docking platforms don’t have real live
people aboard who could get hurt if we screw up. And they’re designed to get
bumped into, the cruiser is not. The real problem is, for us to get carrier
qualified,” she used the US Navy term rather than its awkward Ruhar equivalent,
“we each have to get three successful combat traps in a Dodo, unassisted.”

“Uh, combat 
traps
,
Ma’am?” Jesse asked, confused.

Irene used one hand to illustrate a dropship
coming into a starship’s docking bay. “Usually, docking procedures are done
slow and careful, hands-off. We fly close to the ship and the docking bay’s
control system takes over, flies us into the bay nice and easy. That’s what
happened on our first flight up to the cruiser two days ago. If the docking bay
system can’t sync with our onboard AI, the AI can fly us in by itself, but that
leaves a single point of failure, so we also practice manual docking. A Dodo
dropship isn’t huge like a Whale transport, but those docking bay door openings
look awful tiny when you’re approaching. We practiced the manual procedure for
docking while we were up there.”

“I can imagine that,” Jesse agreed. “But, again,
you’ve done that already.”

“What we haven’t done yet is manual
 combat
 traps. In action, a starship
wants to recover birds quick as possible so they can jump away. Again, usually
we rely on automated systems, but you can’t always count on them working in
combat. So Captain Bonsu and I have to fly a high-speed approach into a docking
bay. If we miss, or fly in too far,” she smacked one hand into the other.

“You want us to fly up there first, put a tennis
ball on a string from the ceiling of the docking bay, so you know how far to
pull in?” Dave suggested jokingly.

“That would be great, Czajka,” Irene tilted her
head and frowned at Dave. “That tennis ball trick works great to park a minivan
in a garage. But we’ll be flying a dropship the size of a Boeing 777 airliner,
coming in at four hundred feet per second. Just to approach, we have to shoot
through a tiny gap in the ship’s energy shield, and there will be simulated
explosions going off to distract us, because that’s what happens in real
combat. As a bonus, some of the flight systems will be disabled or will drop
offline as we approach.”

“Hell, Captain, that sounds dangerous,” Jesse
observed, his face turning pale.

“Nothing bad can really happen, unless we
royally screw up. The control system will take over if we’re going to crash,
but we don’t want that to happen. This first time, we will get five attempts to
dock, and we need three successful traps out of five. They’re going easy on us
because we only had a month of training. When we get out there,” she gestured
toward the sky and beyond, “they’ll be running us through exercises
continuously, and eventually we’ll need to hit the mark successfully every
time, or they’ll wash us out.”

“If our pilots wash out, we go with them,”
Perkins warned. “The Ruhar view the Mavericks as a team, they’re not splitting
us up. No other unit wants just the four of us soldiers as a spaceborne
infantry team.”

“All for one, Ma’am?” Shauna suggested.

“And one for all,” Perkins finished the saying.
“The only good news I know of is this cruiser will have a bunch of flight
cadets who will be burning eager to show they can do what experienced human
pilots,” she pointed to Irene and Derek, “can’t do. I expect some of those
nuggets to crash and burn, and that will give us breathing room for a couple
minor slip-ups, 
if
 we don’t crash a
dropship or lose someone out an airlock.”

“Yeah, Dave,” Jesse winked at his friend.

“Me?” Dave asked defensively. “What you lookin’
at me for?”

“I figure if one of us gets blowed out an
airlock by mistake, it ain’t gonna be 
me
,”
Jesse winked to Shauna.

“Hey,” Dave thumped his chest. “When we were in
Kachako,” he meant the city in Nigeria, “I’m not the one who fell out the
window of that cathouse-”

 “Whoa!” Jesse waved his hands
frantically. “Nobody needs to hear that sordid tale right this minute.”

“Cathouse?” Shauna asked, arms rigidly folded
across her chest. “Like a brothel?”

“Uh, yeah, we were searching the place for
insurgents,” Jesse shot a pleading look to his comrade in arms.

“We actually were,” Dave admitted. When Shauna
gave him a skeptical look, he folded like a rug. “Well, we did find insurgents
there, kinda unintentionally. It was Bishop’s idea. That’s when ’Pone went out
the window.”

“That guy had an AK!” Jesse explained. “It was
either I go out the window or get an ass full of seven six two rounds.
Anyways,” he wanted to avoid discussing that subject any further. “Let’s not
talk about that now. Captains Striebich, Bonsu, best of luck to you going up to
the, what’s that ship’s name again?”

“It’s the 
Ruh
Tostella
,” Derek explained.

“Tostella?” Dave laughed. “What’re the odds we
won’t call it the 
Toaster
?”

Even Perkins had to chuckle at that remark.
“Just don’t call it that when the hamsters can hear you. I don’t think they go
for giving nicknames to their ships.”

 

“Now that your team has qualified for spaceborne
duty, HQ has a going-away present for you.” Bezanson picked a bag off the floor
and took six mugs out, setting them on the table. “The Ruhar cranked these out
for us. The logo is our idea.”

Perkins picked up a mug. It was solid like a
ceramic coffee mug, but lighter than Styrofoam, and the handle folded so mugs
could be stacked. Printed into the olive-drab exterior was a logo Perkins had
not seen before. It read ‘EX FORCE’ on top, with ‘Anytime. Anywhere. Any
fight.’ below. A yellow star with a swoosh separated the two lines of text.
“Uh, Ma’am, this kind of looks like a logo for a minor league hockey team.”

Bezanson laughed at that. “HQ is not exactly
stuffed with marketing experts, this is what the Big Five could agree on.”
Before the Expeditionary Force left Earth, there had been attempts to agree on
a single motto, but talks had fallen apart and mottos were not considered a
priority, so each of the five nations had their own logo and motto. The US
military’s contribution for an official motto was ‘Taking the fight to the
stars’, which was universally agreed to be 
totally

lame, but no worse than the mottos of the other four nations. Naturally, the
troops came up with their own mottos, especially after the force realized their
task would be peacekeeping on Paradise. ‘Rent-a-grunts’ was one unofficial
motto, along with ‘Mall cops to the stars!’ and ‘Will work for food’. Bezanson thought
that last one was entirely appropriate. “HQ wanted something that sounded
fierce. Perkins, this,” she tapped a mug, “is for a morale booster here on
Paradise.”

Perkins looked at the mug with skepticism.
“Anytime, anywhere, sure, but, ‘any fight’?”

“Because we never know what crazy shit we’ll get
into next, and we won’t back down.” Bezanson was pleased to see Perkins nod
determined agreement. “HQ did a survey of soldiers who chose to remain in the
force, and over seventy percent of them cited the actions of your team as a major
motivator. Your Mavericks proved humans can be useful in the war, that we might
have a purpose out here beyond growing food and surviving. Colonel, this is
important. We need to give the force a mission out here or there won’t 
be
 an Ex Force. We’re hoping after the Mavericks
come back, the hamsters will allow other teams to go offworld.”

“Any fight? General, with the crazy shit we’ve
had to deal with, I think ‘Any Fight’ is absolutely appropriate. The Yellow
Team commander of the wargame reminded me that his people never know what 
planet
 they might be fighting on next, they
don’t even know whether the atmosphere will be breathable. So, yeah, ‘Any
Fight’ describes the attitude we 
must

have.” Perkins thought Colter and Czajka would lose their minds when they saw
the coffee mugs, because in her experience, young male soldiers loved macho
shit. Scratch that, she told herself. Sergeant Jarrett was totally going to
love it. Probably Irene, too. Derek Bonsu was the one who might worry that
having ‘Any Fight’ as a motto was just asking for trouble. Well, what the hell,
finding trouble was why they were going to the stars anyway. “I’d like to say
we’ll keep in touch, but-”

“Yeah,” Bezanson stood and offered a hand to
shake. “Interstellar communications are spotty at best. Just make sure you come
back, and come back with the hamsters seeing the value of your team.”

“We will do our best, Ma’am,” Perkins said, then
to herself added ‘or die trying’.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER EIGHT
After Derek and Irene were declared fully
qualified for flying Dodo dropships, they flew up to the 
Toaster
 with Perkins, leaving the three sergeants to wrap up things
dirtside and catch a big ‘Whale’ transport up to the ship. They were met in the
docking bay by a female Ruhar cadet who was not unfriendly, but gave the
impression she had way too much to do for escorting aliens around the ship. The
cadet led the way, with Shauna walking on the right beside her and Jesse and
Dave behind. With the ship preparing to get under way and cadets racing around under
the supervision of the few adult crew members, the journey forward was slowed
by having to squeeze against the side of passageways to make way for cadets on
more important missions. “Cadet Garnor,” Shauna asked after a steady stream of
cadets had come around a corner, “where are the officers?” They had walked a
quarter of the ship’s length, and all she had seen were cadets. Not only cadets
hurrying past, but also cadets working at consoles, performing maintenance and
even loading practice missiles into a Vulture fighter-dropship. So far, the
only adults she had seen were herself and the other two human sergeants.

“Please call me Jinn. There are only eleven
adults of my people aboard the 
Ruh
Tostella
,” Jinn Garnor explained patiently. “On this training mission,
third and fourth-year cadets are supposed to perform all necessary activities.
Under supervision of the adult officers, of course,” she added when she saw
Shauna nervously gritting her teeth.

“That’s, that’s great,” Dave filled in as Shauna
and Jesse shared a quick look of terror. A starship, a mind-bogglingly
sophisticated piece of alien technology, was being mostly flown and maintained
by children? No, not 
a
 piece of
technology, a starship was a collection of millions of pieces of advanced
technology, with several hundred or more of those pieces vital to safe
operation of the ship.

“Do not worry, I have been told there is only a
small chance the ship could go ‘boom’,” Jinn winked in a gesture she had been
told the humans would understand.

“Thank-” Dave began to say.

“Although, I was told that by a third-year
cadet, so he could be wrong,” Jinn added with a straight face, her performance
only spoiled when she looked to see the reaction of the humans.

As they came near an intersection, the cadet
pointed to the right, and Shauna hugged the wall to avoid bumping into anyone
coming around corner. Just as she reached the intersection and turned right,
Shauna came face to face with a Kristang!

Instincts took over and Shauna shouted while
slamming her right shoulder into the lizard’s midsection. With the heel of her
left hand, she punched the alien hard in the chest once, twice, then the
Kristang was falling down and Shauna was being pulled backwards. Cadet Garnor
had both hands on Shauna’s shoulders and was pulling her down, shouting
something like “No! Friend!”

“Easy, easy, baby,” Jesse held Shauna so she
didn’t crack her head on the floor, and Dave leaped up and around the falling
woman to stand between her and the lizard. Jesse moved to spin Shauna so she
would be behind him, but she resisted and they tussled for a second. “Halt!
Stop!” The cadet ordered frantically. “She is a friend!”

Dave did not waver from a fighting stance as the
Kristang pushed itself off the floor, stood up and smoothed the front of its
shirt. “This is the first time I have met humans,” the lizard smiled in a
horrible grimace and made a short bow. It rubbed its chest. “You hit harder
than I expected. Perhaps your species is not as weak as I was told?” Then,
impulsively, it stuck out a hand toward Dave.

“Uh,” Dave stood stiffly until the cadet frantic
head jerking urged him to return the gesture of friendship. Warily, Dave came
out of a crouch and took the lizard’s hand, which was warm and dry. Dave did
not want the lizard to feel a limp, dead-fish grip, but he also didn’t want the
creature to interpret a hard squeeze as a threat. The lizard squeezed back with
the same firm pressure then released before it became awkward. Then the
Kristang nodded to the Ruhar cadet and continued on along the hallway, turning
around a corner out of sight.

Jesse let out the breath he had been holding.
“Can someone please tell me just what the

hell
 that was?”

“Velt Ser-Kotreh Tutula is not the Kristang you
know,” Jinn had stepped back from the three humans, disturbed by the incident. “She
is Verd-Kris. ‘Velt’ is her rank in their system, I do not know its equivalent
in the UNEF military.”

“
She
?”
Jesse gasped. “That was a female? I thought they were all weak and small and-”
realizing he was talking to two females who might not appreciate having their
gender spoken of in those terms. “Because, you know, the warrior caste
genetically engineered them like that. Which is a 
bad
 thing. A terrible thing.” He decided the best thing to do right
then was to stop talking.

“The name Verd-Kris means True Kristang. Or
Original Kristang or First Kristang, something like that,” Jinn explained.
“They are from a population of Kristang cut off from their society when a
wormhole shift blocked access to their home territory. My people then took
control of the territory, but we did not wish to expend the effort to take that
planet. All we did was remove their capability for faster-than-light
spaceflight, to protect ourselves. Over eight hundred years, Verd-Kris society
drifted away from the distorted culture enforced by the warrior caste, and back
toward the matriarchal culture of the Kristang before the Thuranin conquered
their homeworld long ago. Some Verd-Kris now fight alongside my people, and
they are extremely fierce warriors, especially their women.”

“Goddamn,” Jesse let his shoulder slump with a
shudder, coming down off an adrenaline high.

“Why didn’t someone tell us?” Shauna asked as
she rubbed her sore left hand, getting right in the cadet’s face.

The well-disciplined cadet did not flinch. “We
thought you knew. That information was not in the briefing packet about the
ship?”

“Info that friendly lizards were aboard the 
Toaster
?” Shauna asked with angry
sarcasm. “No, we were 
not
 told that.”

“Goddamn,” Jesse repeated. “Hell, I would have
remembered that. You Ok, hon-Shauna?”

Shauna shot Jesse a look that told him calling
her ‘honey’ in public was not acceptable. “We know about the Verd-Kris, a
little. I heard a rumor some of them have been on Paradise, Gehtanu, but I’ve
never met one. Or seen one.”

“I do not know whether any Verd-Kris have been
on Gehtanu,” Jinn bit her lower lip. “There is one other Verd-Kris aboard, you
will meet him later today during the orientation briefing. He has met humans on
our capital world, when your liaison people were there after the maser cannon
incident. The other Verd-Kris is,” she thought carefully, not entirely willing
to trust the translator. “Interesting.”

“Interesting how?” Shauna asked with a look to
Jesse.

“You will see. He is a ‘Surgun’, a rank similar
to a sergeant or warrant officer in your human military. His training methods
can be, somewhat, rough and profane. Do not be alarmed, he is on our side.”

“You sure about that?” Jesse suppressed a
shudder at the unexpected encounter with just one of the lizard-like aliens. He
lowered his voice and looked both ways in the passageway they were walking along.
“You trust a Kristang? I mean, Verd-Kris,” he added with a cringe.

“Do not be embarrassed, they 
are
 Kristang. By origin. Over the years,
the two societies have drifted apart genetically because of isolation from each
other, and because the Verd-Kris have pursued genetic modifications different
from their hostile cousins.” She paused, cocking her head. “Did that translate
properly? I used a term for family who are not directly related.”

“Yeah, ‘cousins’ is good,” Jesse assured her.

“The most obvious difference, or course, can be
seen in Verd-Kris females. Their genetics have been restored close to the
original baseline, before the Maxolhx, through the Thuranin, forced changes on
their society.”

Shauna flexed her sore wrist. “What happened?”

“What happened to the Kristang is what happened
to every species under the Maxolhx coalition,” Jinn shrugged. “When the
Thuranin made contact with the Kristang, the lizards had spaceflight
capability, they had established a colony on another planet in their star system
and they had an extensive operation to mine asteroids. Their scientists had not
yet discovered the theoretical basis for the jump drive, so they did not have
starflight. They still do not truly have the ability to travel between stars,”
she added with a smug wink. “Nor do their ships have artificial gravity as our
ships do, as you know.”

“Yeah,” Jesse bounced on his toes, assuring
himself the artificial gravity aboard the Ruhar ship felt just like real
gravity on a planet. Except for an odd sensation of being tugged into two
directions when he crossed the gap from one gravity plate to another, the
effect was not noticeably the result of any technology. “We appreciate that. I
hated the zero Gee on the Kristang ships that brought us to Paradise.”

“How did the Thuranin make contact with the
Kristang?” Shauna asked.

“The usual way, like the situation with your
people. The Kristang homeworld was isolated for millions of years, then a
wormhole shift provided easy access for the Thuranin. That region of space was not
of any strategic importance to the Thuranin, but they were eager to match their
Bosphuraq rivals by acquiring a client species. Did you know the Thuranin used
to be clients of the Bosphuraq? It’s true, though the Thuranin hate to admit
it. When the Thuranin arrived at the Kristang homeworld, they followed the
Maxolhx process for conquering a species and turning them into clients. They
studied Kristang society and selected the most fanatical, oppressive group to
put in charge. For the Kristang, that was the warrior caste.”

“Wait, the warrior caste was not already in
power?”

“No. Sergeant Jarrett-”

“Please call me Shauna.” She did not know if
that was correct protocol, but the cadet had been friendly and seemed to want
to use first names.

 “Yes,
Shauna,” Jinn flashed a smile. “Before the Thuranin arrived, Kristang society
was splintered between clans and they certainly were not a peaceful species,
but they had avoided suffering a wide-scale nuclear war, and were evolving
toward a stable coexistence between clans. Each clan had a warrior caste that
was a small group, perhaps three to four percent of the overall population. The
Kristang were a 
matriarchal
 society,
females led the clans. The warrior caste in some clans had long wished to
assume power and strike the other clans, so when the Thuranin arrived, they
flipped their client’s society upside down and put the warrior caste in power.
The stated excuse was that the warrior caste needed to take charge, to prepare
the Kristang for battle against my people, or the Torgalau.”

“You were planning an attack?”

“No,” Jinn shook her head sadly. “We knew almost
nothing about the Kristang and had no interest in them, their home system is
far from our territory, especially back then. Our experience with the Kristang,
how we passively stood by and did nothing while the Thuranin perverted their
primitive society and turned them into a direct threat to us, is partly why we
struck your homeworld. Your world is too far away for my people to maintain a
presence there. Even now, after the Jeraptha have captured twelve percent of
Thuranin territory in their recent offensive, Earth is too far away for us. The
purpose of our raid on your world was to deny the easy use of your industrial
base to the Kristang.”

Shauna forced herself not to say anything. She
nodded for Jinn to continue.

“We knew that Earth is remote and not
strategically important to the Kristang, our hope was that if the Kristang saw
they could not easily use your world as a staging base, they would lose
interest in humans. That did partly happen, their White Wind clan nearly drove
themselves into bankruptcy through their effort to conquer Earth,” The cadet
gave Shauna a sad smile.

“Now they’re stuck there,” Shauna looked
straight ahead so the young Ruhar would not see the moisture in her eyes. “The
Kristang at Earth, I mean. When the wormhole shut down, the Kristang at Earth
became trapped.”

“Yes. Shauna, I am, sorry? Did that translate
correctly?”

“Yeah, you’re sorry. Thank you.” Shauna reminded
herself that everything Jinn told her was the official propaganda of the Ruhar
government. No, worse, it was that official story as told by a young,
idealistic cadet who wanted to believe her people were always right and just
and noble. Even though they had bombarded Earth’s power generation and
industrial infrastructure from orbit, killing thousands of humans in the
assault or its aftermath.

 

When they received official orders to report
aboard the 
Ruh Tostella
, the data
package included a layout of the ship and regulations for the crew. The Mavericks
had been pleased to see the ship had three galleys, with one was reserved for senior
officers. Perkins learned to her dismay that she was expected to take her
evening meal with the Ruhar officers and senior cadets instead of with her own
team.

Shauna scrolled down the data package while
waiting for the All Clear to sound so they could move about the ship, and was
surprised to see a section for aliens. In this case, ‘aliens’ referred to any
being who was not Ruhar, reminding Shauna exactly where she and her fellow
humans ranked in the Ruhar military. As she read the regulations and ‘suggestions’
for aliens, her frown grew deeper and she squinted uncomfortably. “Ma’am, this
ship has a quarters section set aside just for us?”

“Yes,” Perkins replied without looking up from
her tablet. She had received a very skimpy briefing about the ship just after
she accepted the assignment, so she knew some of the details ahead of time. The
cruiser had a section of three cabins, one washroom and a small common area
that was reserved for her team. According to the layout, much of the ship’s
crew accommodation space could be reconfigured as needed, and it looked to her
like partitions had been added to enclose an area just for the Mavericks. She
did not know whether the separation of humans from the Ruhar crew was intended
as a mild form of insult, but she was relieved to see it, as it reduced the
potential for friction in the close quarters aboard the training ship. She was
irritated that the Ruhar had not consulted her before setting up a separate
space for humans. There were three small cabins, each with two stacked bunks
and no space for squeezing in a third bunk even if she wanted that. Because the
bunks doubled as acceleration couches where her people needed to be strapped in
when the ship was simulating combat maneuvers, having a third person sleeping
on the floor was not an option. Originally, she had considered having the three
men share one cabin, with Irene and Shauna bunking together, and giving her a
cabin all to herself. Ship’s regs did not allow more people than bunks, and
since there was no way to add a third bunk, she had to make other arrangements.
Shauna could share with Jesse, while Irene and Derek could share another cabin.
That left Dave Czajka as the odd man out, with Emily Perkins seeing no
alternative to sharing a cabin with the young sergeant she found quite
attractive, if she let herself admit feelings she could not officially have.
“There are three cabins. Jarrett, you’ll be with Colter, Striebich with Bonsu.”

“Uh, Ma’am?” Irene looked at her commanding
officer as her cheeks grew red.

“Striebich, whether you’ve made it official or
not with Bonsu, I don’t see the point in trying to keep you two separated.”
Everyone knew the two pilots were a couple, though they had attempted to be
reasonably discreet about their relationship.

“Yes, Colonel,” Irene looked away, not believing
her good fortune. She had not been looking forward to being separated from Derek
during their scheduled months aboard the ship.

“What about, uh, me, Ma’am?” Dave’s own face was
draining of color as he imagined being stuck bunking with a Ruhar, or trying to
sleep in a missile tube. “Will I be hot-bunking with Colter, or something?” The
thought of crashing in Jesse’s bunk while that man was away from the cabin did
not appeal to Dave at all.

“No, you’re with me, Czajka.”

“Uh, Ma’am?” Dave’s question ended in almost a
squeaky uptone.

Perkins tilted her head in a confident gesture
that covered up the butterflies in her stomach. “The Ruhar do not separate
genders in their bunk assignments, and our section doesn’t have separate
officer’s quarters. Look, people, I know this is going to be awkward, but think
of it this way: we will be up there to train and live with 
aliens
, on their ship. When in Rome, do as the Romans do, you got
that? We need to get used to doing things the hamster way, that includes
sleeping arrangements. We might as well be on our best behavior while in our
little section of the ship, which will remind us to be on our toes
twenty-four-seven among the Ruhar, understood?”

“Yes, C-Colonel,” Dave stammered.

“Czajka,” Perkins took pity on the extremely
embarrassed sergeant. “I’m not thrilled about this either, and we need to act
like it’s no big deal, because to the hamsters, it is 
not
 an issue. We have a common area in the middle of the three
cabins, so I expect to use that cabin only when I’m getting rack time,” she
declared, as she thought to herself that maybe she should ask the ship’s
executive office whether there was any sort of private workspace she could use
during the daytime hours. “We’re all going to be cool about the living
situation, we’re going to be mature about it, and we’re going to show the
hamsters that humans are an evolved species, does everyone understand that?”

“Crystal clear,” Jesse spoke first, nodding a
bit too vigorously from the tantalizing thought that he and Shauna would have a
real door to provide privacy.

“Yes, Ma’am,” Dave agreed.

“I expect we are all going to be ass-dragging
exhausted every night anyway,” Perkins added. “The Ruhar have told me they do
not intend to coddle us in training, so we need to keep up with a genetically
superior species, aboard a ship with equipment that is all new to us, and
second-nature to them. We will be like your grandparents,” she winked, “trying
to use smartphones.”

“Oh, 
forget

it,” Dave groaned, and everyone laughed. That broke the tension.

Perkins reinforced the lighter mood by wagging a
finger at Dave. “I’m warning you right now, Czajka. If you snore, I’m going to
smother you with a pillow.”

“Don’t you worry, Ma’am,” Dave found himself
actually grinning despite the still-awkward circumstances. “You should worry
about 
Shauna
. Jesse here snores like
a chainsaw.”

“Hey!” Jesse shook a fist at Dave. “Only when
I’ve got a cold or something.”

“Right, like you had a cold the whole time we
shared that hut in the jungle?”

“Ah, I was allergic to that ugly couch, maybe.”

 

At the first opportunity for privacy, Jesse
pulled Dave aside. “Ski? Hey man, you gonna be OK?”

“Like I got a choice? I’ll be sleeping in my
camo uni pants and a T-shirt, I guess,” he said unhappily. He thought that
wearing thick, baggy pants and a shirt were the best way to make bunking
together less awkward for Colonel Perkins. Maybe he could suggest they leave
their cabin door open. Then he got a pensive look on his face. “The Colonel’s right,
though. Out here, we might as well throw some of the old rules out the window.
I mean, not just aboard this ship. Us being military on Paradise,” he touched
the American flag patch on his uniform top, “it’s kinda crazy, you know? What
does it mean for us to be US Army, when we’re cut off from the US of A, maybe
forever?”

“I don’t know,” Jesse admitted. “I’ve been
thinking the same thing. Like, if we weren’t doing something important up here,
I might have turned in my stripes by now, you know?”

“Really?” That surprised Dave. Jesse had
intended to make the military a career from the day he signed up. Bishop had
been open about wanting to get out of the Army and use the money for college,
although at the time of Columbus Day, he still had no idea what he wanted to do
with his life. And Dave? Dave wasn’t sure whether he wanted to stay in or not.
His time in Nigeria, where one random group after another shot at him or
planted improvised bombs, and the politicians back home could not define what
the mission was supposed to be or even when or if the mission would end, had
for a time soured Dave on the Army. Then came Columbus Day, and it had no
longer mattered what Dave’s plans were.

“Yeah, man,” Jesse’s eyes darted over to where
Shauna was unpacking her gear in the cabin they would share. “Big things are
happening on Paradise, even for us humans. People are getting out and setting
up farms, setting up businesses, starting a new life, you know? We’re up here
showing the flag and making sure the hamsters don’t forget all we did for them,
but I’m getting worried that by the time we are old news and UNEF dissolves,
other people will have grabbed all the good opportunities. We got to think
about the future, Ski, and I don’t just mean tomorrow.”

“Has Shauna talked to you about the future?”

“Hell, no, man,” Jesse whispered harshly. “I
haven’t said a word about it, I don’t want to scare her away.” With human women
vastly outnumbered by men on Paradise, traditional gender courtship had been
flipped on its head, with women being reluctant to get rushed into a
commitment, and men eager to hold onto relationships. On Paradise, it was only
foolish men who said those three little words ‘I Love You’ first, to avoid
sounding clingy and scaring away a woman. “Shauna always wanted to be infantry
and now she’s got it,” he shook his head. “She’s not going to be tempted by the
idea of us putting down roots on a farmstead in the middle of nowhere, not when
she’s got shiny Ruhar toys to play with.”

“Good luck to you, ’Pone,” Dave held out a fist
and Jesse bumped it.

“Hey, don’t worry, man. You’ll find a girl soon.
You’re famous!”

“Fame don’t mean much these days,” Dave frowned.
“And we’re stuck on this bucket for months, I am sure as hell not finding a
girl out here.”

 

Emily Perkins lay down to sleep on the bottom
bunk, wearing pants and a T-shirt. At first, she had kept her bra on, but ten
minutes of discomfort made her decide to quietly wriggle around under the sheet
and extract the bra out through one arm of her shirt, a maneuver she knew
always amazed men. Another adjustment was needed; with pants on her feet were
too hot, so she kicked her feet out from under the sheet. At last, she was
physically comfortable enough to fall asleep, and she certainly was tired
enough from the long and eventful day, but her mind was racing despite her
effort to concentrate only on breathing slowly. After a frustrating ten minutes
of thoughts bouncing around in her head like the ball in an old pinball
machine, she felt herself drifting off.

Thus, she was extremely annoyed when a squeaking
noise from outside the cabin intruded on her attempt to sleep. She tried
flopping the pillow over her head to block out the sound, but it was no good.

Finally, Perkins couldn’t take it any longer.
The cabin’s control pad was high on the wall, near the top bunk. “Czajka, you
awake?”

“Uh, what?” Dave pretended to be far more groggy
than he was. His plan had been to lay awake, breathing deeply and evenly to
pretend he was asleep, until he was sure Perkins had dropped off into
dreamland. Only then could he hope that if he did snore, he didn’t keep his
commanding officer awake.

“Can you hit the door controls, close the damned
thing?”

“Is that squeaking sound keeping you awake too?
I can see if there’s something caught in an air vent,” he suggested.

“Czajka,” she sighed and it turned into a yawn.
“That sound isn’t coming from the 
ship
.”

“Oh,” Dave rose up on one elbow. “
Oh
.” He could feel his face growing beet
red in the darkness. And, of course, right as he fumbled for the door controls
in the unfamiliar alien cabin, the squeaking sounds grew closer together and
louder until even the sleepiest of minds could not mistake the source of the
sound. Mercifully, he found the button and the door slid closed. “Sorry about
that, Ma’am.”

“Why is it 
your

fault?”

“Ma’am, in Nigeria, we got into some tough
spots, Jesse and I saved each other’s lives more than once. Bishop, too. If I
hadn’t saved Cornpone back then,” he let his voice trail off in a soft chuckle.

“I appreciate the thought, Czajka, but what
makes you think that noise has to be from Colter and Jarrett?”

“Oh, uh. Sorry, Ma’am.” He had not considered
that Captains Striebich and Bonsu might be celebrating their first night aboard
the ship.

“Stop saying you’re sorry, Czajka. Let’s catch
some shut-eye, we have a busy day tomorrow.”

“Yes, Ma’am. Should I, uh,” he looked at the
now-closed cabin door, faintly illuminated by the light of the communications
panel. “Should I go crash on the couch?”

“Thanks for the offer, but that’s against regs.”

“The ship’s not underway,” Dave stated, unsure
of himself. “We’re still attached to the resupply platform.”

“The Paradise system is still a Threat Grade
Three combat zone. Regs state anyone intending to be on a sleep cycle must be
in a certified acceleration couch, in case the ship needs to move quickly.
You’re anxious to get out of here? Why, do I snore?”

“No, Ma’am. It’s just,” he didn’t bother to
finish.

“This is awkward for me, too, Czajka. We’ll be
bunking together for months, might as well get used to it now.”

“I suppose.” He almost added an ‘I’m sorry’ but
overrode his mouth before he could say anything. “Good night.”

“Good night, soldier.”

No sooner had Dave let himself settle down into
the bed, when a different sound caught his ear. Not a sound, exactly, more like
a vibration coming through the wall. A rhythmic thumping, slowly getting louder
and faster.

“Oh for Christ’s sake!” Perkins exploded in
frustration, then laughed.

“
That’s

not Jesse,” Dave found himself laughing along with the colonel. If the thumping
was coming through the wall, then it had to be from the adjacent cabin shared
by Irene and Derek.

“All I can say is, those two had 
damned
 well better be rested in the
morning,” Perkins complained with disgust, then she couldn’t help laughing, and
she and Dave began laughing uncontrollably together. The thumping reached a
crescendo and after five or six hard banging sounds, stopped.

“Thank 
God

for that,” Perkins gasped when she was able to stop laughing enough to catch
her breath.

“If they go for Round Two, I’m knocking on their
door,” Dave said half-seriously.

“Let’s hope they don’t,” she agreed, and it
struck her then there was a major disadvantage to having the ship’s crew
quarters being reconfigurable. Instead of sturdy, fixed bulkheads, the moveable
partitions were thin and flimsy. Somehow, in the morning, she needed to
discreetly let the two other women know just how sound transmitted through the
cabin walls. Unless they already knew. How could they not, she asked herself,
as she answered her own question. Because, each of the couples were busy and
not listening to any sounds around them. “Again, good night, Czajka.”

Dave felt certain there was no way he would get
any sleep that night. He was in a cabin, less than two meters away from a
woman, a woman in a bed. Perkins was a Lieutenant Colonel and his commanding
officer and, like him, she was wearing long pants and a T-shirt, but he could
not stop himself from imagining what she was like under those unflattering
Army-issue clothes. Blood was pounding in his ears from the excitement of
having heard one and possibly two couples in amorous celebrations. He tried to
think of anything else to keep his mind and other body parts from focusing on
the woman sleeping or not sleeping almost close enough to touch, and found his
thoughts wandering back to Earth, to his grandparents’ summer cottage on a lake
in the countryside west of Milwaukee. He found his mind drifting back to lazy
summer days at the lake, swimming and canoeing and fishing and cookouts and
riding his bicycle over to visit friends. Blessedly, he began to lose focus,
and as the exhausting day caught up with him, he soon fell asleep.

 

Perkins had set an alarm on her zPhone so she
could get up earlier than Czajka, and minimize the awkwardness of waking up
close to each other. Czajka must have set an alarm even earlier than hers,
because she was awakened by the sound of the cabin door sliding open. “You’re
up?”

“Yes, Ma-” he put a hand over his mouth to
stifle a shuddering yawn. “Ma’am. Hitting the shower, I’ll be back soon.”

She could barely see him in the light of the
status panel. For a reason she could not explain, and couldn’t attribute only
to the fog of her just-awakened brain, she asked “How did you sleep?”
Immediately, she cringed at the question that seemed much too intimate.

“Um, good. I think my mattress is set too soft,
I’ll, uh, change it tonight,” Dave did not know why he was dragging out the
conversation when all he wanted was to get out of the cramped cabin as fast as
he could. “Be back soon,” his words made him cringe, so he sped across the
common area to the washroom and shut the door behind him, then slapped his
forehead in dismay. He had not brought any clean clothes with him, so after a
quick shower, he would be putting yesterday’s clothes back on. Fortunately,
uniform pants and shirts all looked the same, so he could change in the cabin
later, while Perkins took her turn in the washroom.

 

“Did I wake you last night?” Perkins asked Irene
and Shauna quietly.

“No, Ma’am, why?” Irene asked innocently while
lacing her boots in the common area.

“I got up in the middle of the night, tripped on
my boots and fell against the wall. These walls,” she rapped her knuckles on a
partition, “are 
thin
, and they
transmit sound.”

“Oh, ah, no,” Irene stared intently at her
boots, unable to look Perkins in the eye, and with the corner of one eye she
saw Shauna was also suddenly focused on her own footwear. “I didn’t hear
anything.”

“No harm done, then,” Perkins tried to inject
levity into her tone. “I’ll tuck my boots under the bunk tonight,” she
announced, satisfied the two women had gotten her message.

 

Breakfast for the humans had been a quick meal
of granola bars made in Lemuria, and a sort of herbal tea, with the herbs also
grown in Lemuria. “Better than most MREs I’ve choked down over the years,” Dave
mumbled quietly over a mouthful of granola that was tough enough to chew that
he had to wash it down with the tea. The human diet on Paradise was still
limited and too-often bland, as UNEF had not brought plants to grow many
commonly-used spices. One thing they did have was peppers and Jesse enjoyed a
fiery chili sauce, but he got tired of it after a while. The Ruhar had been
experimenting to see whether some of their spices could safely be ingested by
humans, even though Ruhar food did not provide any nutrition, their spices
might serve to make the bland human diet more palatable.

“I hope you still feel that way when we’ve been
eating this 
every
 freakin’ morning,”
Jesse whispered.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER NINE
“Pone! Cornpone! Hey, Jesse!” Dave called out
louder and louder to catch his comrade’s attention.

“Kinda busy here,” Jesse snapped back,
concentrating on the view in his visor. He was running back images and data of
the last zero-Gee combat assault exercise, in which a pair of Ruhar cadets
soundly spanked Jesse, Dave, Shauna and Perkins. Worse than the shame of losing
badly was the taunting from the hamster cadets, and Jesse was determined to
figure out where the humans had gone wrong, so the next exercise wasn’t so
one-sided. He had already watched the actual exercise, with the ship’s training
AI pointing out all the mistakes made by the four humans. Now he was intently
watching a re-run of the exercise as the AI suggested it 
should
 have been conducted. “Talk to you-”

“
Now
,
‘Pone,” Dave declared as he tore the visor upward, cutting off the exercise.
“Game time is over, the battlegroup got a call for real action.”

“No shit?” Jesse asked excitedly, any annoyance
he felt forgotten. “We’re gonna see action?”

 

When Jesse got back to the Mavericks’ shared
quarters, he was disappointed to see Dave and Shauna sitting in front of the
bulkhead display. “We’re gonna watch from here? I want to see for real, not on
some display,” Jesse tapped the display with disgust. “Ski? You with me?”

Before Dave could answer, Shauna put hands on
her hips. “Is this like on Paradise, when the two of you froze your asses off on
the ice to watch that maser cannon test fire?”

“She may be right, ’Pone,” Dave said with an
uncertain look on his face.

“Come on,” Jesse was not going to be dissuaded.
“You telling me you both don’t want to see a whole group of starships
maneuvering away and jumping into action? There must be some place on this tub
we can watch through a viewport? What about that porthole dome thing where the
flight control crew monitors dropship retrievals? There won’t be any flight
operations now, right?”

“We shouldn’t go anywhere without clearing it
with Colonel Perkins first,” Shauna objected.

Jesse noted she had said ‘we’ rather than ‘you’
to the idea of watching the fleet jumping away. “Ok, Ok, I’ll contact her,” he
pulled a zPhone off his belt.

“We’ve seen ships come onto and off star carrier
docking platforms plenty of times before,” Dave noted. They had observed that
activity while outside their ship in zero-Gee combat training during the five
weeks they had been aboard the ship. “And jumps, too,” he remembered, recalling
when their training had been halted temporarily so they could turn away from a
starship jumping away behind them. Ordinarily, ships would not jump anywhere
near a person free-floating outside a ship, but as combat ops might include
that happening, their training had to include what spaceborne troops should do
if they were outside in a spacesuit, and a nearby ship needed to jump. Nearby
was a relative term, because the gamma radiation from a jump could kill anyone
in a spacesuit within three thousand kilometers, even with the suit’s radiation
shielding fully engaged. Dave remembered being frightened when he felt a
tingling sensation after his suit’s sensors picked up the gamma ray burst of an
outbound jump, and he had almost panicked in fear the Ruhar-made suit had
failed to account for the differences of human physiology. Within seconds, he
realized the tingling was only the suit’s anti-radiation shield powering down
after the gamma rays passed by, but he did have a moment of gut-wrenching fear.
He didn’t want to feel that fear again. “Oh, hey, Jesse,” Dave held up a finger
before Jesse could press the Send button on his zPhone. “Maybe those viewports
aren’t protected against gamma rays, you know?”

“I’ll ask about it,” Jesse assured his friend as
he sent the message then checked the reply. “Huh. Damn it. Colonel said, no,
she doesn’t want us wandering around the ship.”

“That’s fair,” Shauna patted Jesse’s shoulder.
“Dave’s right, we don’t know if it’s safe to watch a jump through those
viewports.”

“We could have asked,” Jesse stuck out his lip
in an exaggerated pout.

“Oh, my poor man,” Shauna played along.

“Damn, are you trying for sympathy sex, Jesse?”
Dave asked with disgust.

“Depends,” Jesse flashed a grin at Shauna.
“Would that work?”

“We’ll see,” she bit his earlobe, then pushed
him away as he tried to grab her ass. “You want to see this action, remember?”

“Oh, yeah,” all Jesse could think of right then
was Shauna. Whatever he was going to say next was drowned out by the blaring of
an alarm, and an automated announcement familiar enough that none of the three
humans needed their zPhone translators. Prepare for maneuvering, the
announcement stated. “Hot damn!” Jesse punched a fist above his head. “Are 
we
 going into action?”

 

The answer, to Jesse’s great disappointment, was
a resounding NO. While they waited, the team’s two pilots came into the shared
quarters, having been chased away from flight training while the ship prepared
to maneuver for real. The 
Ruh Tostella

did power up and detach from the star carrier’s docking platform, and did fire
its normal-space engines to get clear of the star carrier before that vessel
jumped away to drop off the second part of the Ruhar Task force. But the 
Toaster
 simply hung dead in space, while
the giant Jeraptha ship created a powerful jump field and disappeared in a
flash of gamma rays, taking the other Ruhar warships with it. “That’s it,
then?” Jesse clenched his fists. “We’re just gonna wait here while the rest of
the task force goes into action?”

“Colter,” Irene admonished the soldier gently.
“This is a training ship, mostly run by cadets. You didn’t think they’d take
this bucket into a real engagement, did you?”

“We’re carrying real weapons,” Jesse retorted
before adding a “Ma’am.” While it was true that most of the ordnance carried in
the ship’s magazines were training equipment that was oddly painted almost the
same shade of blue the US military used to designate inert practice weapons,
Jesse had seen genuine warshots on a tour of the ship’s portside aft missile
magazine. He also knew the ship’s maser cannons and railgun batteries were
capable of inflicting real punishment to an enemy. If needed, the 
Ruh Tostella
 could be transformed from
training ship to light cruiser in a couple days of hard work. “Do you know
what’s going on?”

Irene blew hair out of her eyes, then retied her
flyaway ponytail. “Two hamster ships practicing a stealth recon mission found
something odd, debris from a Ruhar civilian ship at a remote rendezvous site.
If the commodore or the beetles thought it was really serious, they would have
reported it in before sending ships to investigate. My guess is the civilian
ship suffered an engineering failure, and the commodore thinks this is a
perfect opportunity for realistic training. The 
Toaster
 isn’t going with the task force, in case there is any real
danger.”

“Out here?” Shauna fiddled with the controls,
expanding the view on the display. “This area was chosen for training because
it is quiet.”

“It’s quiet 
now
,”
Irene stood and traced a fingernail along a line on the display. “Until
recently, this line was the border of Thuranin-controlled space. If those
little green MFers have second thoughts about ceding this territory to the
Jeraptha, this sector could get hot real quick,” she bit her fingernail in a
girlish gesture that got Derek’s full attention. “But I doubt it. If the task
force thought the 
Toaster
 could be in
a hazardous situation, we would be at action stations, and we’re not.”

Shauna automatically looked up at the Threat
Condition indicator above the door. It showed yellow because the ship was
maneuvering, but no external threat was anticipated. “How long until we know?”

Irene looked to Derek, who answered. “The ships
on recon duty took three jumps to get back here, so they’ll take that many to
return to the site they want to investigate. Then the commodore might want to
use the opportunity for fleet maneuvers. A couple days, at least. Our training
will be restricted in case the 
Toaster

needs to move in a hurry, so no space combat exercises outside the ship,” he
looked at Jesse, “and no flying around in dropships for us pilots. I’m sure the
crew will think of something to keep the cadets busy and morale up.”

 

Irene was unfortunately correct, all the fun
training was on hold while the 
Ruh
Tostella
 waited for the task force to return. For the two pilots, there was
no zooming around in dropships, so they used their time in a simulator,
training to fly starships. Perkins mostly used the time in the ship’s Central
Control Center, a combination bridge and CIC, learning as much as she could
about space warfare tactics, command and control, and anything else she could
absorb. Shauna, Dave and Jesse were bitterly disappointed, because they had
been scheduled to perform a live spacedive from orbit to the surface of a
planet, and now that phase of the training might be cancelled because the task
force had a tight schedule and the cadets needed to return to school. They had
been intensively training for three weeks to qualify for a real spacedive, and
now they might never get the opportunity. All three of them had been looking
forward to the spacedive, because several of the hamster cadets had already
done it, and the three humans were eager to show they could do anything a
hamster brat could do. And because no one could be considered to be Spaceborne
Army without having made a real dive from orbit to the surface of a planet. And
because they all wanted something to brag about when they returned to Paradise.
And because, dammit, a spacedive from orbit just sounded like a whole lot of 
fun
.

Nert was also glum about having the fun parts of
training put on hold, but he was excited to finally have the humans join him
for lunch in the galley closest to their assigned quarters. The Ruhar cadet had
been inviting them to lunch since their first day aboard the ship, but their
different training schedules had never allowed them the time. Dave and Jesse
slapped together sandwiches and walked forward, warily looking through the
door. Nert had suggested they arrive late, when lunch was winding down and
fewer Ruhar would be jamming the tables there. He knew the humans felt awkward
about being aboard an alien ship, and his fellow cadets would openly gawk at
the humans as curious objects. Nert wanted the two Mavericks to wear their
medals, reminding the cadets of how this group of primitive aliens had saved
thousands of lives on Paradise, 
twice
,
but Dave explained the cadets might resent the humans for showing off, so the
medals stayed tucked away in their cabins. “Hello, Misters Cornpone and Ski,”
Nert beamed with delight as he saw his two friends standing in the doorway. He
was thrilled to use nicknames for the team, although Jesse had cautioned him
that while it was acceptable to call the three sergeants by the first names or
nicknames, the three commissioned officers should be referred to be their ranks
or last names. That had confused Nert, as the Ruhar military did not have a
distinction between types of officers. There were no sergeants, warrant
officers or petty officers in the Ruhar military. When Dave had tried to
explain why sergeants were ‘
non
-commissioned’
officers, Nert had asked why an experienced Staff Sergeant should have to take
orders from a Second Lieutenant who had zero experience. Dave had ruefully
replied that he had the same question, but that’s the way it was.

“Hey, Nerty,” Dave used the nickname they used
for their liaison officer. “Looks like the place is still plenty busy,” he
looked around to see most tables were lined with cadets sitting elbow to elbow.
“Should we come back later?”

“No, please, come in,” Nert gestured eagerly,
his expression anxious and eager. “I have a table for us,” he pointed to a corner
where one lunch tray sat by itself.

“Ok,” Jesse shrugged and walked in, nodding to
acknowledge the staring hamster cadets. The three sat down and the humans took
out their peanut butter sandwiches, chosen because they didn’t want to eat
anything that might smell offensive to the Ruhar.

“I am sorry,” Nert shook his head and looked
down at his food. “The Slusho machine is broken,” he pointed to another corner
of the galley where a stainless-steel machine had a piece of yellow tape across
it.

“Oh, Ok?” Dave was confused. “What is that?”

“Slusho is a drink you humans may consume
without harm, I checked,” his chin bobbed up and down with frantic seriousness.
“It would not provide any nutrition to you, but,” he grinned, “my mother tells
me Slusho has no nutritional value to 
anyone
.”

“I like it already,” Jesse grinned back. “What’s
that you’re drinking?”

“Oh, no,” Nert paused from gulping down a
greenish-yellow fluid that fizzed like a soda. “This is Slurm, my favorite. My
mother says I am addicted to it, but it is just delicious. I-” he covered his
mouth with embarrassment as he shook with a loud burp that drew attention from
Ruhar at nearby tables. “I am sorry,” the cadet looked stricken.

“Hey, Nerty, don’t worry about it. I get the
same reaction from a Coke, and man I wish I could have a Coke right now,” Jesse
closed his eyes, imagining an ice-cold soft drink rather than the ship’s
recycled water they were stuck with. “That’s a, uh, we call it a soda, it’s
fizzy like that Slurm stuff you’re drinking.”

“I think you humans can drink Slurm also, here,
try it,” he held the cup out toward Jesse.

“Ah, thanks, Nerty, but we should wait for an Ok
from the Colonel.”

Nert sipped his drink more slowly and asked
about their orientation tour that morning, while they ate. The galley was
clearing out, as cadets had to report to their next training session. Another
shift of cadets came into the galley, getting food and staring intently at the
three sitting by themselves. Dave noticed none of the incoming cadets joined
their table, instead squeezing in where they could at other tables. “They don’t
want to sit with us strange aliens, huh?” Dave whispered.

“Oh,” Nert was crestfallen. “Do not be insulted,
Mister Ski. I am not,” he frowned and looked at the table. “I usually eat by
myself. I am not, popular in this crew, I mean, with the cadets in my school.”

“They’re just jealous that you’re famous, you
saved two giant transport ships from being blown up by Kristang commandos,”
Dave patted the cadet on the back.

“No, I was not popular before that either,” Nert
sounded miserable. “I have never been good at making friends, and it is worse
now.”

“You are great at making friends with us. Is
that Bifft asshole making trouble for you?” Jesse looked around the galley but
did not see that particular cadet. Jesse had been around Ruhar long enough that
they no longer all looked the same to him.

“He is not helping,” Nert admitted. “Bifft is
very popular, he has a group of friends who are,” he looked up while trying to
think of the correct word in English. “They are much admired at the academy.”

Dave and Jesse looked at each other. They knew
at Nert’s age, being popular was the 
most

important thing in the entire universe. They needed to think of a way to make
Nert cool to his fellow cadets. “Hey, Nertster,” Dave winked while the young
alien unhappily sipped Slurm through a straw. Dave held out a fist and Nert
bumped it with a questioning look. “Don’t you worry. I got an idea.”

 

The next night, the Mavericks were seated at the
back of a large briefing room that was being used for a sort of talent show
that evening, as part of the adult crew’s effort to keep the cadets busy and
entertained while the battlegroup was away. Perkins had requested for her team
to be seated at the back because that way, her people were not on display
unless the Ruhar turned around and stared openly. When a few cadets did that, a
reprimanding look from officers straightened them out quickly.

The talent was mostly musical, with Perkins
finding that she actually enjoyed much of the alien selections. The Ruhar had
stringed instruments like guitars and violins, horns sort of like trumpets, and
a keyboard. She did not see anything like the clarinet she had once tried to
play when she was young, and she was grateful not to be reminded of too many
hours sitting inside practicing when she would rather have been outside.

A three-person band just finished performing a
pop tune that sounded a bit like an old Beatles song, and Perkins was surprised
to see Nert stand and walk onto the stage by himself, a goofy grin on his face.
The crowd murmured when they saw Nert step up the microphone, and that instead
of having a musical instrument in his hands, he carried a large cup of some fizzy
liquid. “
What
 is he doing?” Perkins
whispered to Irene, who shrugged because she had no idea.

“Don’t you worry, Colonel,” Dave whispered back
with a wink as Nert began quickly chugging his drink.

“What the hell did you do?” Shauna hissed at
Jesse, loudly enough that several Ruhar in front of them turned around to see
what the commotion was about.

Jesse squeezed Shauna’s hand. “Watch. It’s gonna
be epic.”

“If you embarrass Nerty,” Shauna squeezed back
hard, and she was not being friendly.

“This is a human song,” Nert explained to the
audience. He tipped back the cup to finish drinking. Then he burped the song
loudly into the microphone. “
Bur-happy
birthday, happy birthday, happy birthday to you uuurp,”
 he finished with a
sheepish grin, unsure of himself.

For a split second, there was complete silence
in the room. Then, because of Nert’s goofy grin and because the cadets were,
after all, teenagers, the hall exploded with uncontrollable laughter. Some
cadets laughed so hard they fell out of their chairs, and that prompted another
round of laughing. Nert made a short bow, having been coached not to overreach,
and stepped down from the stage, making his way back to his chair. He was
greeted by backslaps and many raised pinky fingers in a gesture that was the
Ruhar equivalent of a thumbs up.

Before he sat down triumphantly, he pointed to
Jesse and Dave then mimed a high five, the two men returned the gesture. In a
move they had planned, the two humans held their hands out and bowed repeatedly
toward the beaming cadet as if worshipping an idol. That gesture was picked up
by a group of five other cadets and the wildly-grinning Nert bowed back,
accepting the adulation.

“
That

was your idea?” Perkins asked with tears of laughter rolling down her cheeks.
“Why didn’t you tell me?”

“Because you might have said no,” Dave explained.
“If you did say no, you would have been wrong, Ma’am.”

“I can see that,” Perkins agreed as she watched
the seated Nert continue to accept backslaps and admiring gestures from the
audience, including a couple very amused officers.

“You did that, for Nerty?” Shauna whispered into
Jesse’s ear, now squeezing his hand with distinct affection.

Jesse nodded. “It was Dave’s idea, we coached
him. He needed a way to show he can be cool, you know? The poor little guy was
sitting all alone in the galley.”

Shauna pulled away from Jesse’s ear to look
closely into his eyes. “That was a 
wonderful

thing to do. Jesse Colter, I may be falling for you.”

Don’t say it don’t say it don’t say it, Jesse
warned himself. Do 
not
 blow it by
saying those three words right now. Instead of fatefully risking a premature
reply of ‘I love you’, Jesse listened to his inner voice of reason and merely
nodded while gently squeezing her hand. At that moment, he could not remember
ever being so happy.

The laughter settled down to sporadic chuckles
as the next act set up their instruments on the stage. Perkins’s gaze swept the
room, taking in cadets still pointing to Nert and chuckling with approval,
until she saw Bifft and his crew. That senior cadet was glaring pure hatred at
Nert, talking to his crew in a low voice, and he smacked a fist into a palm.

This could be trouble, Perkins thought to
herself. Since her people had just given Bifft another reason to hate Nert, she
felt responsible. “Dave,” she began to whisper, then coughed at the realization
she had used the sergeant’s first name because that seemed so natural. “Sergeant
Czajka, I need you to keep an eye on that senior cadet,” she said with a
meaningful glance toward Bifft. “He might be trouble for Nert.”

 

Perkins’ instincts were right, after the talent
show Bifft and his friends confronted Nert in the passageway, and was not
deterred by Jesse and Dave standing next to their alien friend. Bifft’s jaw was
set and he squeezed a fist in anger while he jabbed a finger at the two humans.
“It is an insult that I am stuck aboard a vessel of war, with you primitive
humans and treacherous Kristang. Our leaders indulge their pets too much.”

“Ah,” Jesse waved a hand in a dismissive
gesture. “Don’t you worry about it, Biffty. We know you being here is an
insult, but we don’t let it bother us none.”

“Wha-what?” The senior cadet sputtered. “It is
not an insult to 
you
. It is an insult
to 
my
 people.”

“Hey, man, whatever turns you on,” Dave
shrugged.

“Turns, me, on?” Bifft repeated slowly as he ran
back the translation, confused. Then, thinking he understood, the pink skin of
his face grew red under the light fuzz of fur. “I do not get sexually excited!”

“Not 
ever
?”
Nert spoke up before Dave or Jesse could reply. “Well, with a face like that,
it’s best not to get your hopes up.”

Dave did not know which reaction was more
extreme; the uproar of laughter at Bifft’s expense, or the murderous look of
hatred that the embarrassed senior
cadet shot toward Nert. Even the three cadets in Bifft’s crew could not help
laughing at their leader’s plight, and Bifft ground his incisors before
spinning and attempting to stomp dramatically away, squeezing through the
laughing crowd in the passageway. Except the toe of one boot tripped on
something, sending Bifft crashing into the door frame. His dignity completely
gone, Bifft ran around a corner. His three companions recovered as best they
could, their shoulders still shaking with laughter, and hurried out the door.

“Nerty, man, 
day-um
!”
Dave held a hand. “That was 
classic
!”

Nert slapped Dave’s hand, and offered a
high-five to Jesse. “Thank you,” Nert said simply, having been coached not to
ruin the moment by grandstanding.

“What is this?” Another cadet asked, holding up
a hand hesitantly.

“This?” Nert slapped the cadet’s outstretched
hand, more gently than he had done with the two humans. “This is a human
gesture of joy and approval. They call it a ‘high five’,” he explained, and
counted off his five fingers. With a grin he added “If Kristang did this, they
would call it a ‘high 
four
’?”

“Ha!” Jesse grinned back. “You are on 
fire
 today, Nerty!”

For a second, Nert froze, not understanding the
term, then he smiled as his translator earpiece explained it to him.

Dave noticed the Ruhar cadets were tentatively
giving high-fives to each other, hesitantly tapping palms. “Jesse, let’s show
them how it’s done, huh? Hey, uh, cadets, let’s say your friend,” he pointed to
Jesse, “just scored a point to win a game. You give him this. Up high,” the men
slapped over their heads, “down low,” a slap at waist level, “behind the back,”
they spun to complete the gesture. “And finish with this,” they jumped high and
slapped hard enough that Dave’s hand stung from the impact.

“Oooooh,” Nert’s eyes were wide with admiration.
“Could you show us that again?”

Jesse and Dave obliged the cadets, then watched
as the eager Ruhar tried to follow, including Nert. When several Ruhar crashed
into chairs while attempting a too-enthusiastic jump, Dave called a halt.
“Whoa, whoa, Ok, that’s good. Save it for when you have something real to
celebrate, huh?”

“Yes, Sergeant Czaj-ka,” Nert said slowly,
beaming at Dave in hero worship. “Could you explain this, please?” He held a
fist up close to his chest, and slowly pushed it toward the human.

“Oh, man, you got it right,” Dave bumped the
fist. “Gently, huh? Don’t want to go so hard you hurt yourself, right? We call
that a fist bump. It is like a quick high-five, I guess.”

Half an hour later, the two men walked into the
common area of their living quarters to find Perkins studying something on her
laptop. “You two look happy about something,” she observed.

“Yes we are,” Dave replied and bumped fists with
Jesse. “Ma’am, the only thing on this ship cooler than Nert right now are
humans. 
Us
.” He shook his head in
wonderment.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TEN
Dave was startled awake from an all-too-brief
nap by Jesse shaking his shoulder excitedly. “Part of the battlegroup is back!
A destroyer just jumped in to recon the Assembly Zone, it’ll jump back out soon
to give the All-Clear, then the task force will be here,” he announced with a
gleeful shout. “Come on, man, you don’t want to miss this. I was watching it on
the display in the briefing room, and one of the hamster kids there said he
noticed battle damage to that destroyer.”

“I’m on it,” Dave rubbed sleep from his eyes,
now fully awake, swinging his feet down onto the deck. He knew there wasn’t
anything he could see on the display in the briefing room that he couldn’t view
on his zPhone or the display built into the bulkhead of their tiny bunk room,
but being with people made everything seem so much more real.

 

When he got to the briefing room, Jesse was
disappointed to see the big display on the opposite bulkhead was showing only
their ship and a blinking ring off to the side. He couldn’t tell how far they
were from whatever the blinking ring was, because the display didn’t include
any sort of distance scale. Captain Striebich was seated in front and Captain
Bonsu was strapping in beside her.

“What happened, Ma’am?” Dave asked, also
disappointed. “Where’d that destroyer go?”

“Where are the hamsters?” Jesse asked with a
glance back over his shoulder through the open door.

“The destroyer jumped away, you 
just
 missed it,” Irene answered. “That
ring,” she pointed to the display, “represents the spatial distortion effect of
their outbound jump. You can’t see it, that’s a projection by the display. The,
uh,” she also checked the doorway, “hamsters kids bugged out of here when too
many humans came in here.” She emphasized her words with a single-finger
gesture that was not befitting an officer. “Damn,” she winked, “I hate it when
it does that,” she remarked while shaking her hand.

“That was quick,” Dave shrugged toward Jesse,
“the destroyer just got here.”

“The destroyer was just performing a recon jump
to assure the task force that the AZ is clear. They had to wait for their
sensors to reset after coming through the jump, and they had to wait for
distortion of the inbound jump to stop vibrating spacetime so they could form
an outbound jump wormhole,” she explained. “They were able to jump back early
because the 
Toaster
,” she gestured to
the deck to indicate she was referring to the ship, “gave them the All-Clear.
Usual procedure would require the destroyer to sweep a bubble five lightminutes
in every direction before they Ok’ed the task force to jump into the AZ.”

“When will the task force be jumping here?”
Perkins asked as she strode into the briefing room, coming forward to take one
of the seats in the front row and slipping a safety strap loosely around her
waist.

“ASAP if they follow standard procedure, Ma’am,”
Derek responded. “Every second they wait, the gamma rays of that destroyer’s
inbound and outbound jumps are expanding outward, and illuminating the AZ to
enemy ships like shining a strobe light. The task force needs to get here,
reset their sensors and shields and maneuver into a defensive formation before
an enemy can pinpoint the AZ and react. The hardest thing to remember about the
rules of space combat is that ships can travel much faster than sensor data. If
a ship sends out detectible energy, like an active sensor pulse or gamma rays,
the enemy can pick up that energy and jump right on top of you before your
sensor pulse returns to you.”

Perkins nodded silently because she had been
learning space combat tactics in her own training. “I told the Ruhar that I
would be slow to learn about space combat because I’m not a pilot, and my
instructor told me that is not a problem. Their opinion is the humans best able
to transition to space combat would be our submarine commanders.”

“Subs?” Jesse asked. “Like, underwater, Ma’am?”

“I can see that,” Dave mused with a hand rubbing
his chin in deep thought.

“Huh?” Jesse looked at his friend in puzzlement.

“Think about it, ’Pone. Sub drivers have to rely
on stealth, they can’t go pinging the ocean with sonar, or they give away their
position.”

“Correct,” Perkins nodded happily. “A submarine
crew also is used to relying on passive sensor data of an enemy they won’t ever
see. And they spend months at sea in a metal tube without ever seeing the sun.”

“I’ve seen plenty of suns on this cruise,” Jesse
shook his head. “But it’s different looking at a star through a helmet visor
when your feet aren’t on solid ground. Or any ground at all. We-”

He was interrupted by Irene’s excited shout.
“Two ships just jumped in. Correction;

one
 ship just jumped in. The other jumped in almost a minute ago, but it’s
fifty seven lightseconds away so we’re just seeing it now. Hmmm, uh oh,” Irene
fiddled with the controls built into the arm of her chair, zooming in the image
to show the closest warship, a destroyer. “
That

doesn’t look good.”

The ship had a long gouge out of its belly, with
the scar wrapping around to the starboard side. Sparks flared from the damaged
area, and the destroyer’s nose was flattened and smashed in. It was more
difficult to detect if the second ship was damaged, because it was farther away
and the bulkhead display only had access to low-level sensors. “Ma’am?” Irene
turned to Perkins. “You have access to command systems?”

“
Limited

access,” Perkins grimaced. The access that had been granted to her was only for
training purposes, she didn’t know if it would provide any real-time tactical
data. To her surprise, she was able to pull up a status summary on her tablet,
though the system wouldn’t let her feed the info to the bulkhead display so her
team could view it. “You’re right, Striebich, this is not good. The Ruhar got
into a battle against the Wurgalan. Our friends thought they had the upper
hand, then the Bosphuraq stepped in and the Ruhar had to bug out.”

“Bosphuraq?” Derek expressed alarm. “I thought
there was an unwritten rule that species only fight at an equivalent level of
technology.”

“It’s more of a custom,” Perkins replied with an
angry look on her face. “Usually the Bosphuraq send the Wurgalan to fight the
Ruhar or Torgalau, while the Bosphuraq reserve their own forces to tangle with
the Jeraptha. Beating up on lower-tech species risks intervention by the
higher-ups. Apparently this time, the Bosphuraq decided that stepping into this
battle was worth the risk of the Rindhalu slapping them down. The Ruhar lost a
cruiser,” she reported with shock, having just seen that tactical update.

“A cruiser?” Dave asked, dismayed. The task
force only had two cruisers, other than the old training ship. “Does it say
what happened to the other task force?”

Perkins shook her head, causing a lock of hair
to swing down in front of her eyes. Dave’s gaze followed the hair, mesmerized.
“The star carrier was supposed to pick them up first; we won’t know their
status until they jump in here. People, the 
Toaster

could be maneuvering soon, I expect us to be put on Grade-2 alert soon. Let’s
get our gear and come back here in-” She was interrupted by a blaring alarm,
announcing the ship was at Alert Condition Two. “Like I said.”

 

They returned in less than four minutes, with
everyone dressed in pressure suits and carrying a bag containing gloves,
helmets and extra life support packs. In battle, the humans did not have
assigned action stations, because the Ruhar did not want lowly aliens getting
in the way. Perkins checked with the duty officer to see if she should report
to the bridge and was told, politely but firmly, that she could best help the
ship’s operations by keeping away of Ruhar engaged in their jobs. Emily Perkins
found that mildly insulting, as on the way back to the briefing room she saw
young Ruhar cadets racing toward their duty stations. Even Nert was assigned to
a damage control party amidships, she pinged him to ask if he was Ok and he
replied only with a terse ‘yes’ before cutting the connection. When Perkins got
back to the briefing room, her entire team was there. Shauna was wearing a full
spacesuit, having been in training when the alert sounded. “Ma’am,” Shauna
looked up from helping Jesse attach his helmet. “Any news?”

“Not much. The Ruhar were hit by a group of
Wurgalan ships and the battle was going well enough, then a Bosphuraq cruiser
jumped into the action. Our allies think the Bosphuraq stepped in to help the
octopussies-”

“Excuse me, Ma’am, octopussies?” Jesse looked to
his companions who were equally confused.

“I’ve never met one, of course,” Perkins
explained. “Like the Thuranin, our info about other species comes mostly from
the Ruhar. We know the Thuranin look like little green men, right?” Her team
nodded so she continued. “Apparently the Wurgalan are a sort of land octopus,
so at HQ we call them ‘octopussies’. The Bosphuraq are worried about the
weakness of the Wurgalan so they are assisting them directly. The Bosphuraq
think the Thuranin did too little, too late to help the Kristang, and now the
Thuranin themselves got beat badly and the Kristang are useless to assist. The
Bosphuraq are determined not to let Wurgalan weakness harm their ability to
control territory.” Perkins lowered her voice and glanced toward the door to
assure no Ruhar were listening. “From the report,” she tapped her tablet, “I
get the feeling the Ruhar are very concerned about this development. If the
patron species are going to step in directly against the hamsters, then our
allies need to reconsider their ability to hold territory they recently took
from the lizards.”

“Hell, Ma’am,” Jesse looked stricken. “Does that
include Paradise?”

“I don’t,” Perkins hesitated because that
thought had not crossed her mind. “I don’t think so, at least not now. The
concern is about territory the lizards held, until the Thuranin got their asses
whipped by the Jeraptha in the past couple years. The Ruhar thought they could
just kick the tires and decide which planets they want to keep, now it looks
like the Jeraptha may hold them back, until the beetles understand just how serious
the Bosphuraq are about defending their coalition’s territory.”

“Colonel,” Dave asked hopefully, “does this
apply only to territory near space controlled by the Bosphuraq?”

“No,” Perkins shook her head. “The task force
was far from Bosphuraq space when they got jumped. This is something new; the
Jeraptha may now be fighting the Bosphuraq about who controls territory the
Thuranin lost.”

“Because the Bosphuraq will give it back to the
Thuranin once they rebuild their strength?” Shauna asked, though she thought
she already knew the answer to that question.

“No,” Perkins snorted. “The Bosphuraq and
Thuranin hate each other more than they hate the Jeraptha. This development is
likely the result of the Bosphuraq taking advantage of Thuranin weakness to
cherry-pick star systems they want for themselves. My guess is the Jeraptha
will need to test the Bosphuraq to see where they will push back. This has got
to be,” she let out a long breath and swept her hair back before pulling her
helmet over her head, “frustrating to the Jeraptha.”

“Frustrating? They probably 
love
 this,” Dave interjected. “Not knowing what territory the
Bosphuraq might fight to hold, is going to provide super juicy wagering action
for the Jeraptha. The Ruhar say those beetles will bet on anything, this has
got to have them excited out of their minds.”

“You may be right about that, Da-” Perkins
almost used his first name. Blushing inside her helmet, she corrected herself.
“Czajka. We may find out when that star carrier returns.” Inwardly, she groaned
when another thought struck her. While it was good to observe their allies in
real action, the losses suffered by the task force very likely meant the
training cruise would be cut short before humans could fully qualify for space
duty, and demonstrate their ability to operate effectively alongside the
hamsters. If the war in the sector was now entering a dangerous and
unpredictable phase, opportunity for further training may be delayed
significantly.

“Hopefully it gets back here soon,” Irene zoomed
the display image outward, expanding to show another ship that had jumped in
sixty eight lightseconds away and was now accelerating hard to form up with the
others.

“What are they like?” Dave asked.

“The Jeraptha?” Irene held up her hands. “We’ve
never met them.”

“But you and Captain Bonsu have flown to their
ship.”

“That was only to practice manual docking
procedures,” Irene explained. “We flew into one of their docking bays, waited
for the clamps to engage and release, then we flew out. Kind of like doing
Touch-and-Gos with aircraft. There was a Jeraptha who talked to us, but we
never even saw one of the beetles, the gallery above the docking bay was empty.
We were told the Jeraptha are not unfriendly to lower species, the crew of the
star carrier was just very busy with all the training going on.”

“Is their ship really called the ‘
Deal Me In’
?” Jesse asked. “A cadet told
me that, and I didn’t know if he was playing a joke on me.”

“No joke,” Irene assured the soldier. “The name
does translate as ‘
Deal Me In’
, or
close enough.”

“You think the beetles will really bet on what
places the Bosphuraq will defend?” Jesse continued.

Derek answered the question. “From what I’ve
heard, the Jeraptha will bet on pretty much anything. What I wonder is whether
their intel people base their assessments on wagering.”

“They would do that?” Shauna was shocked by such
an idea.

“Not based on their own bets,” Derek explained,
“I meant based on what the overall Jeraptha public is wagering on.”

“Yes,” Perkins agreed with a nod toward Derek. “That
type of crowd-sourced prediction model can often be more accurate that the assessments
of so-called ‘experts’. When I was at the Pentagon, we were looking at using a
prediction market system to forecast future threats.”

“Ma’am?” Jesse blinked. “What kind of market?”

“Market-
based
.
Think of it like drafting a fantasy football team where you’re using real money,
to buy players you think will perform well the next season. At the Pentagon, we
experimented with a team of threat assessment people to project the next
hotspot. We created a sort of market where people could buy binary options in
various potential threat scenarios, with the value of a particular threat
rising as the threat became more likely. Before you say it sounds like a
crapshoot,” Perkins gave a disarming smile at Jesse, “that system predicted we
would be in Nigeria fourteen months before the President pulled the trigger to
put boots on the ground there.”

“Holy crap,” Jesse gasped.

“Come on, Cornpone, we were talking about us going
into Nigeria way back when we were in boot camp,” Dave reminded his friend.

“Yeah, but I didn’t think people were 
betting
 on it.”

“I know it sounds sketchy,” Perkins said with
sympathy, “but the Jeraptha might just be crowd-sourcing their strategic intel
using real money, through a wagering system,” she added with a faraway look on
her face, the wheels turning in her head. As a former intelligence officer, she
would love to know how accurate the Jeraptha system was in real life.

“It sounds crazy,” Derek agreed, “but it may
work as well as any system we have.”

“I’ll stick to fantasy sports,” Jesse replied,
chagrinned. “Nobody gets killed.”

“If the Jeraptha intel scopes out right, 
less
 people will get killed,” Dave
argued.

“Prediction markets aren’t perfect,” Perkins
admitted. “To be useful, you need to filter out what people think will happen,
from what they think the popular opinion is. Too many times, people in the
market try to guess what the herd is thinking, rather than using their own gut.”
The glazing eyes of her audience told Perkins she was getting way too nerdy on
that subject. “Health agencies on Earth have been using predictive markets to
project flu outbreaks for years, and they work pretty well. If we ever get an
opportunity to talk with the Jeraptha, I’ll ask them about it.”

“Ha,” Jesse laughed. “They’ll want to bet with
you about what you think the answer is. Those beetles-”

Irene interrupted him. “Star carrier jumped in!
Damn, they really nailed that jump, exactly in the center of their target Emergence
Point,” her voice reflected the admiration she felt. “Two point four
lightseconds away, we should start moving-” an alarm blared and Irene smiled.
“Like I said, we will start moving soon.”

Within seconds, they felt a gentle tug to the
right as the ship turned, then fired its engines. Irene watched the thrust
indicator on the bottom of the display, and was pleased that her guess based on
feel matched what the display showed; the 
Ruh
Tostella
 was not moving quickly. As a noncombatant and not having suffered
any battle damage, the training cruiser would be last in line to latch onto the
star carrier. It hung back away from the cluster of warships approaching their
assigned docking platforms, with the 
Toaster

providing an overall sensor view of the area, and acting as a backup traffic
controller to assist the Jeraptha crew of the star carrier. Irene noticed
something odd right away, and when she looked up to catch Perkins’ eye, the
Colonel nodded with concern. She had seen it too. “Those ships are in a hurry,”
Irene said quietly. “A big Goddamned hurry.”

“Looks like it,” Perkins agreed. Normal
procedure for docking with a Jeraptha star carrier was for ships to approach
one at a time, remaining outside the imaginary bubble of space within which the
Jeraptha ship’s AI took control from the docking ship’s navigation system,
until the star carrier authorized them to proceed inward. Only when one ship
was securely attached to a docking platform and powered down, was a subsequent
ship given clearance to approach. Due to the poor maneuverability of star
carriers, the Jeraptha were understandably worried about bulky armored warships
clumsily crashing into each other, or into the vulnerable long spine of their
space truck.

What Perkins and Striebich noticed was the Ruhar
warships were approaching in groups of three, with the remaining two ships
close behind. Though battle damage to the Ruhar ships rendered some of them
awkward to handle, the Jeraptha appeared to be more concerned about completing
the docking operation as quickly as possible than about navigation safety. The
two human women shared a look, and they both pulled their seat straps tighter.
“People,” Perkins ordered, “let’s get buttoned up,” she reached under the seat
for her helmet. “I think once this ship gets moving for real, it could be a
rough ride.” At the moment, their cruiser was proceeding toward the star
carrier at a leisurely rate of acceleration, hanging back to give the
battle-damaged warships clearance to maneuver onto the docking platforms.

“What’s up, Colonel?” Jesse asked.

Irene answered for Perkins. “The Jeraptha are
breaking safe docking protocol, they’re going for combat latching. That means
incoming ships fly a partly-independent approach, get onto whatever docking
platform they can reach ASAP, and hold on with their own magnetic grapples as
best they can. The beetles are worried about something, they want to jump out
of here pronto.”

“They won’t jump without us, will they?” Dave
asked, hoping he knew the answer.

“No,” Derek assured the soldier.

Irene acted as the killjoy. “They won’t if they
can help it. But the beetles aren’t going to risk their star carrier and a
dozen warships for a training cruiser. If they think they’re in jeopardy,
they’ll jump away and we’ll be on our own.”

“We’ll be on our own for a short time,” Derek
shot the other pilot a look. “Czajka, all it means is if the star carrier jumps
away, we jump away also, and meet up at a preprogramed AZ.”

“What if that AZ is hot also?” Shauna asked.

“Then we go to the alternate AZ, and then
another. Look, Jarrett, Czajka, the Ruhar and Jeraptha have been doing this for
a very long time,” Derek said in a calm, steady voice. “Probably before humans
had any form of writing. They know what they’re doing. And,” he added for
emphasis, “they’ve been kicking the lizards and Thuranin’s asses all over this
sector.”

“Besides,” Irene chimed in unhelpfully, “we’re
just a training ship. In a battle, we would be the last ship targeted.”

“Yeah, because we’re the most vulnerable,”
Shauna rolled her eyes at Irene.

“Sorry,” Irene muttered. Just then, another
alarm blared and the ship’s acceleration increased noticeably. “Hmm, the
Jeraptha want us docked as soon as possible, too,” she said as she watched the
display project the ship’s course, straight in to a docking platform in the
middle of the star carrier between two other ships. The Jeraptha must be
confident their undamaged ship could tuck into that tight space, Irene thought
to herself, while they are directing the incoming battle-damaged warships onto
platforms that had plenty of empty space around them.

“Captain Striebich?” Dave asked, pointing at the
display. “What’s that destroyer doing?”

“A go-around,” Irene guessed. She had watched
the stricken destroyer approach its assigned platform clumsily, clearly that
ship’s damaged propulsion system was making it difficult to control its flight.
The destroyer had fired its thrusters on full to avoid a collision with another
incoming ship, overcorrected and been forced to back away using its main
engines. “The Jeraptha waved it off. It will have to try again.”

“What if they can’t do it?” Shauna asked,
fearing for the crew of the destroyer.

“They’ll have three options,” Derek explained.
“They can get tug bots to tow them in.”

“They won’t have time for that,” Irene said
quietly. “Those tugs are designed to move dropships, not starships.”

“Or they can remain stationary and the star
carrier can maneuver to latch them on. I sure wouldn’t want to do that, even if
we weren’t in a hurry,” Derek shook his head at the thought of the massive star
carrier, burdened with warships, trying to perform the delicate operation of
moving precisely enough to position a docking platform under the belly of the
destroyer.

Shauna unconsciously pulled her arms tightly
around herself from anxiety. “What’s the third option?”

“Abandon ship,” Irene replied. “Get the crew off
in dropships, send the ship away on autopilot. They can recover the ship later,
or set it to self-destruct.”

“That’s not optimal,” Perkins noted. “They
probably have wounded aboard, moving them to dropships will take time, and risk
interrupting their medical treatment.”

“Yes Ma’am,” Irene agreed in a soothing tone.
“The Ruhar have a procedure for that. I’m sure that ship’s command crew began
prepping their medical teams to transport the wounded, as soon as they realized
the ship wasn’t responding properly to her helm.”

“I hope they did,” Shauna clenched her fists as
she spoke.

“Look!” Derek pointed. “That destroyer is
opening docking bay doors. They are preparing to abandon ship!”

It was Emily Perkins’ turn to clench her fists.
If the Jeraptha were junking a destroyer after one failed docking attempt, the
beetles must be very concerned about getting away from the Assembly Zone as
quickly as possible. That meant the beetles expected trouble. And that was not
good. Before she could halt her tongue, she muttered aloud “I hope this doesn’t
turn into a fight.”

“If we have to fight, this could get kinetic in
a hurry,” Irene warned. Their cruiser was significantly behind the other ships
in line for docking. Even with the 
Toaster
’s
command crew now twisting the cruiser’s tail to get it moving faster, they
would not be docking for over twenty minutes. Distances in space were vast, and
the ship’s approach speed was limited because however hard they accelerated
toward the star carrier, they would need to cancel their relative speed before
docking.

“Yeah,” Derek grimaced. “We throw that term
around loosely but remember out here, ‘kinetic’ can be measured as a percentage
of lightspeed. A fleck of paint could punch through the hull armor,” he rapped
knuckles on a bulkhead, “if it’s going fast enough.”

“Captain,” Jesse did not like the mental image
of being killed by a tiny fleck of paint. “You are a genuine
confidence-booster.”

Despite the anxiety of the team’s pilots, who
could only watch the combat latching operation, all the warships attached
themselves, even the destroyer that had been waved off its first attempt to
connect with a docking platform. The 
Ruh
Tostella
 was the last ship to contact a platform, and the clamps had barely
engaged when the star carrier jumped.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER ELEVEN
 “No,” the Ruhar flight instructor said
with a plastered-on smile and a forcibly pleasant and patient tone that came
across as irritated, impatient and patronizing, as if she were speaking to a
young child who could not understand how to perform a simple task. “You first
have to-”

“Switch to the independent mode, yes, I know
that, and that is why I have the mode selected,” Irene replied through gritted
teeth, using her right pinky finger to indicate the ‘INDEPENDENT OPERATION’
symbol in bold letters at the top of the touchscreen display. With two human
pilots learning to fly the starship from the auxiliary control center, the
displays were converted to English words and symbols familiar to humans, like
having positive indicators in green and negatives in red.

“You don’t have to be nasty about it,” The
flight instructor huffed, her translated words coming across as distinctly
frosty.

“I wasn’t being nasty,” Irene tensed in her
pilot’s couch, but kept her eyes focused on the displays instead of turning to
confront their alien instructor. It slightly irritated Irene that they were
being instructed by a young Ruhar whose rank of ‘klasta’ was roughly equivalent
to a second lieutenant, while Irene and Derek were captains with many thousands
of hours of real flight experience. Klasta Splunn was freshly graduated from
the academy, having taken the low-status assignment aboard the 
Toaster
 only to build up flight hours in
her logbook. The alien had little real-world flight experience, she was clearly
bored and angry about being assigned to teach humans, and Irene wasn’t taking
any crap from her.

“I do not like your tone, human,” Splunn ground
her incisors as she spoke.

“
I
 do
not like being spoken to like a child, by an instructor who can’t read her own
display,” Irene shot back, knowing that although the Ruhar probably could not
or would not read the English symbols on the two pilot displays, the klasta had
standard Ruhar common language symbols on the displays at the instructor
station.

The klasta tensed, lifting a finger to halt the
simulation. “Perhaps it would be best if-”

Derek turned in his couch to face their instructor,
jabbing an accusing finger at her, in a gesture he knew she understood. “
Perhaps
 it would be best if you do the
job you have been assigned. If you are not capable of that, we can request a
more qualified instructor right now,” he held up a zPhone.

“Good idea-” Irene began to agree.

“And 
you
,”
he turned to his fellow pilot. “Do
 your

job, and leave out the comments. We’ve both had asshole instructors before, and
you aren’t making things any better.” He leaned toward Irene and pressed a
button to transfer control to his station. “
My

spacecraft,” he declared as he assumed the role of pilot in command.
“Initiating approach,” he stated as he authorized thrusters for manual
operation. “Are you good, Klasta Splunn?”

“Yes,” came the curt reply.

“Sorry,” Irene’s voice was soft. Then, louder,
“Monitoring remote guidance, guide beam acquired and active.”

“Acquisition confirmed,” the Ruhar behind them
confirmed in a voice that held only a hint of anger. “Proceed at one-quarter
power. Watch your heading!” She added in a reproachful tone.

“Heading dialed in,” Derek reported with a
smile, and a wink toward Irene. He had the ship exactly on the designated
heading, not only within the green band of acceptable error, but near the blue
center line of optimal course. Derek Bonsu had learned the best way to respond
to someone trying to bait you was to never take the bait. Ignore the insults, plaster
a fake smile on your face, and pretend you did not understand an insult was
intended. That often turned the tables and made his opponents lose their
temper, while he just had a good laugh inwardly.

Irene lifted a hand off the controls just long
enough to give her fellow pilot a thumbs up, then returned her laser focus on
the copilot’s task of providing navigation data to Derek. She knew the heading
they had the ship on was nearly perfect and the instructor had nothing to
complain about. Had nothing to do, because so far, neither of the two humans
had made any kind of significant mistake. “Course within ninety seven percent
of nominal,” Irene could not help reporting. “Ninety 
eight
 percent.”

The humans ignoring her, defying her, made the
klasta pissed off enough that she decided to deviate from the approved training
course. With a tight smile at the trouble she was causing, she changed parameters
of the simulation. “Star carrier reports hardpoint Three has a mechanical
failure, change course to hardpoint Seven.”

Without losing her cool or making a snarky
remark though she knew the hamster was screwing with them, Irene smoothly
pulled the navigation control to the new guide beam, and fed the data to Derek.
“Hardpoint Seven, acknowledged.”

“Watch your-”

“That frigate will be crossing our heading,”
Irene warned as the instructor threw another complication at them, this one a
ship that was coming into hardpoint Six and interfering with the 
Toaster
 although the larger and heavier training
cruiser had the right of way. “Adjusting course to keep clear.”

“Taking power to thirty percent,” Derek glanced
toward Irene and she nodded. “Slowing down to give that frigate a clear path to
Platform Six,” he said just as the simulated frigate suffered an unlikely engineering
failure and veered toward the 
Toaster
.
This time, Derek could not keep the smile off his face. He had anticipated the
instructor throwing a highly unlikely problem into the sim, and he was almost
disappointed at how obvious and unimaginative the complication was. “Taking
power to fifty percent, sound collision alarm!”

“Fifty percent is not authorized under proximity
maneuver conditions,” the klasta snapped gleefully, anticipating an opportunity
to reprimand the primitive aliens. “Reduce-”

“The frigate has suffered an engineering fault
of unknown severity and origin,” Irene interrupted. “Emergency flight
regulations require us to get to a safe distance as soon as possible, in case
the frigate’s jump capacitors or reactor explode.”

With a grin, Derek reveled in the chance to
truly fly the bulky cruiser, even if it was only in a sim. “Bringing main power
online, thrusters at eighty percent.” The 
Toaster
’s
main normal-space engines would soon be responding to his commands, surging the
ship forward with awesome power.

“Main power ready,” Irene reported. “Releasing-”

“Pausing simulation,” the klasta said unhappily.
“Resetting. That was,” she cleared her throat. “Acceptable. Our instruction
course has not yet covered emergency flight regulations.”

Again Derek turned in his couch to face the
Ruhar, wiping the grin off his face. “We studied those regs on our own, before
we came aboard the ship. We did not wish to waste your very valuable time,” he
added with a quick smile that he kept as genuine as he could.

“Hmmf,” Klasta Splunn sniffed. For the next
hour, she stuck to the standard training course, only throwing curveballs at
them occasionally and only introducing approved complications. Chit-chat was
kept to a minimum and Irene was on her best behavior, knowing their success was
the best way to piss off their alien instructor.

After the 
Toaster

latched onto the star carrier, the 
Deal
Me In
 had performed a series of jumps, then dropped off the training
cruiser and other ships in dark interstellar space while the Jeraptha went to
pick up the other half of the battlegroup. Training had been suspended for six
hours, as the 
Toaster
 and the
battle-damaged warships waited for the Jeraptha star carrier to reappear and
take them aboard. After twelve hours, with no sign of the star carrier and with
the warships busy patching up their stricken hulls and making repairs as best
they could, the 
Toaster
 resumed
training on a limited schedule. Priority for pilot training in the simulators
had been given to Ruhar cadets, as they would only be aboard the ship for
another couple weeks before returning to the academy, so at first Irene and
Derek had been studying dull flight manuals by themselves, until Perkins asked
why the ship’s auxiliary control center could not be used to run simulations?
With the cruiser hanging motionless in space, the aux flight station was
admittedly empty and unused, and all Perkins had to do was find an instructor
who was willing to lower his or her self to training the most primitive
semi-intelligent species in the known galaxy. Fortunately, instruction time
partly counted toward qualified flight hours, so it was not impossible to
persuade an instructor to take on two additional students. Unfortunately, since
the best instructors were already busy, Irene and Derek had been stuck with the
sour-faced Klasta Splunn, who was predisposed to being grumpy because she knew
no one else wanted to be trained by her.

The klasta was frustrated that the two humans
had not quickly failed, which would have given her ample opportunity to insult
them and even better, would have allowed her to push at least one of them aside
and use the simulator to build her own qualifying flight hours. More than two
hours into the training session, she set a simple instruction to run, and left
the aux control center to get a snack from the galley.

“That’s a relie-” Irene began to say before
Derek raised a hand and silently pointed to the flight recorder module between
the two pilot stations. Whatever they said or did would certainly be
scrutinized later by the Ruhar. “Real, real challenge,” she recovered. “My
turn?”

Derek pressed a button on his console and lifted
hands away from the touchscreens. “Your spacecraft.”

The two pilots ran the simulation on their own,
flying the starship through normal space to various points, until it almost
became dull. Truly, flying even a light cruiser in normal space was not all
that much different from flying a dropship. Flying in combat would be much more
challenging, but they were far from enjoying that type of simulation. Several
times, Irene had to look to Derek, a huge grin on her face. “Think about it, we
are the first humans ever to fly a starship!”

“Simulated,” Derek reminded her, though that did
not much tarnish their shared joy.

“It’s simulated 
now
,” Irene agreed, knowing the standard training course would
include actually moving the big cruiser, some months in the future. “We were
the first humans to ever fly a dropship, for real.”

“Ah, except for Captain Desai, when that guy
Bishop stole it to, to do whatever they did. 
She
 was the first to fly a Dodo, that we know of.”

“Fine, except for her,” Irene admitted,
wondering how the mysterious Desai had managed to fly a Ruhar Dodo without any
training. Had Desai somehow gotten access to a simulator before she broke out
of jail? No, it was more likely one of the whispered rumors was true; that the
whole operation had been planned and run by the Ruhar, using Bishop’s group of
humans as a cover story. Unless the Ruhar clandestine operations people
admitted the truth, no one would ever know. Irene looked at the clock on her
console, feeling her back growing stiff from sitting so long in the pilot
couch. “Is our instructor ever coming back?” The current sim program only had
ten more minutes remaining.

“This sim will end and repeat soon,” Derek
pointed to the ‘Loop’ indicator that was showing active. “We could-”

Alarms blared and the simulation on their
displays froze, then the consoles switched to show real-time images. “Hey! The
Jeraptha are back,” Derek announced excitedly, recognizing the outline of the 
Deal Me In
 even though the displays and
controls in front of them were now all in Ruhar common language script. “Damn,
I am glad to see those beetles again,” he shot a guilty glance at the flight
recorder module, and decided to pretend he hadn’t said anything noteworthy.
They were aboard a Ruhar ship, and he knew the hamsters had their own nicknames
for their Jeraptha patrons.

“Hands off,” Irene lifted her fingers away from
the controls, which should not respond to her anyway, as she did not have the
proper access code or biometrics. Even if she did, the auxiliary control center
needed to be authorized to have any effect on ship systems, and that authority
could only be granted by the senior officers. When the ship was maneuvering,
the aux controls were supposed to be manned anyway, and Irene nervously looked
toward the hatch for their instructor to return. “Maybe we should get out of
these seats. Oop,” she added as artificial gravity began to fade. Cutting off
gravity meant the ship could potentially be performing hard turns and
accelerations. The display flashed to Alert Condition Two. “Where is the klasta?”

“Regs say we remain in these seats until we are
officially relieved,” Derek pointed out, his tone reflecting his uncertainty.
“We are supposed to put our helmets on,” he reached under his couch for the hardshell
helmet, “and button up.”

“Derek, we are not pilots,” Irene sighed and
reached for her own helmet. “Not yet,” she waved a hand at the consoles that
were all showing the odd-looking Ruhar script. “I can barely read this stuff.”

“Me neither, but when Splunn comes back, she
will see we followed regulations to the letter and have nothing to bitch,” he
remembered the flight recorder was still active, “to reprimand us about.”

“Ok,” Irene agreed as her seat was the best
place to watch the unfolding drama. “Wow,” she gulped as the ship suddenly
slewed to one side, leaving butterflies in her stomach. “Those ships are really
moving.”

“Yeah, I don’t know if I’m reading this right,”
Derek squinted at a blinking notice from the Toaster’s bridge, “but I think the
beetles ordered all ships to perform combat latching again. They must really be
in a hurry to jump us out of here.”

“Derek,” Irene figured out the controls for the
sensors and zoomed the image in on the 
Deal

Me In
. “Look at those ships attached
the star carrier.”

Derek leaned over to watch her display before
she mirrored the images on his console. “Whew,” he whistled as he took in the
view of battered and in some cases crippled warships. There were only four
Ruhar ships attached to the star carrier, but seven ships had jumped into
action. Three ships were missing. “They were in one hell of a fight. Oh, damn,
look at that. The star carrier took hits also,” he noted scorch marks and
jagged holes in forward and aft hulls. Amidships, the spine had cables flopping
around and pieces of the scaffolding bent or missing. “This is big F-ing
trouble. Damn. Who has the balls to hit the Jeraptha?”

Before Irene could respond, Derek’s answer
appeared in the form of Bosphuraq battlecruiser, jumping in close. “Oh, 
shit
.”

 

Klasta Splunn flailed her arms in a futile
attempt to steer toward a handhold, missing as she flew by in the zero gravity.
When the Jeraptha star carrier jumped in unexpectedly and the alarm sounded,
she had been finishing a snack and chatting with a cute senior cadet. She wasn’t
that much older than the cadet, she told herself, why, she had graduated from
the academy less than a year ago. Splunn had been struck with guilty panic when
the alarm sounded, knowing she was several minutes away from her human students,
and without artificial gravity functioning the trip back to the aux control
center would take longer. The aux control center was not her action station
when the ship was under way, but she knew the senior officers would rightfully
fault her for leaving a pair of aliens alone in a vital part of the ship. When
the gravity cut off, she had been racing headlong down a passageway and
clumsily stumbled, sending herself awkwardly soaring through the air out of
control. The passageway where she needed to turn left had gone past without her
being able to catch a handhold, and her plight only got worse when she crashed
into a trio of frightened cadets. The four of them struggled to separate and
the cadets got out of her way, helping her turn in the correct direction, No
sooner had she launched herself across a side passage when the ship lurched,
making her bounce off a bulkhead and bending a wrist painfully. The ship was
already maneuvering, and no one was available to provide backup to the bridge
helmsmen!

Splunn finally hooked a foot painfully on a
doorframe and halted her tumbling flight. With determination, she pulled
herself along the correct passageway, seeing with dismay the two adult crewmen
coming in from a side route. They were assigned to the aux control center, and
now she had no chance to get the aliens out of the seats before anyone saw they
had been left alone. Wordlessly, she gave them a quick wave between handholds,
trying to make clear they were all going to the same place.

She slowed to avoid a collision just as a
Condition One alert sounded! The three of them stared at each other for a
heart-stopping moment. Enemy ships had jumped in, or their own ship was about
to jump into combat. No longer waiting for Splunn, the two crewmen expertly
pushed off hard with their legs, zipping down the passageway toward where the
open hatch to the aux control center could be partially seen.

They almost made it. Splunn saw no point to the
three of them trying to jam through the hatch at the same time, so she gave her
aching wrist a break and eased up slightly—

She never saw the railgun dart that was moving
at an appreciable percentage of lightspeed. The first dart of the pair slammed
into the 
Toaster
’s shields that were
already weakened by hits from enemy masers, forcing the shields to absorb and
dissipate gigajoules of energy. The second dart, hitting less than two meters
from its companion, was also mostly deflected by the straining shields. Mostly.
Eight percent of the dart managed to penetrate all the way through to the
cruiser’s hull, having been turned into plasma that burned its way through the
ship’s light armor like it was tissue paper. After punching through the armor
with little trouble, the hellish globs of plasma burst in a cone-shaped
fountain of death, burning and destroying everything in a sixteen degree arc
and only stopping when they encountered the inner surface of the armor plating
on the other side of the hull. Three of the objects burned by the plasma jet
were Splunn and the two crewmen.

 

Irene was startled not so much by the violent
shaking of the ship as by the hatch behind them crashing closed. The quick
automatic action of the hatch was not fast enough to prevent air being sucked
out into the passageway and Irene’s flightsuit inflated to compensate, with air
hissing from a reserve tank in the helmet even before the visor could swing
down. The flightsuits they wore were based on combat skinsuits, but were even
less capable than flightsuits used by crews aboard dropships and combat
aircraft. When issued their new flightsuits aboard the 
Toaster
, Irene and Derek had assumed the Ruhar fleet’s thinking
must be that, if a ship were hit in deep space, a tougher flightsuit was not
going to be of much help.

And Klasta Splunn had not been wearing a flightsuit
at all, instead being dressed in the simple coveralls that were the standard
crew uniform. Unless that hamster had been able to pause long enough to don an
environment suit, she might already be dead. “Derek-”

“Incoming!” He watched transfixed in shock as
missiles streaked in toward the 
Toaster
,
with the forward section of the ship being pounded by repeated maser fire.
Unknown to Derek, impact of the second railgun dart amidships had pushed the
cruiser just far enough to avoid another pair of darts that bracketed the
forward hull, with one barely striking the shields a glancing blow. As the two human
pilots watched helplessly, their cruiser’s point-defense masers exploded one
missile at a safe distance, then another but damage from the railgun hit
amidships had knocked out defense cannons and sensors in that section of the
ship, leaving a gap in defense coverage. Recognizing their vulnerability, the
command crew fired thrusters to roll the ship, exposing the undamaged defense
cannons on the other side. Unfortunately, the enemy also adjusted to
circumstances and the incoming missiles arced around to aim at the damaged
area. The missiles were faster and more nimble than the bulky old cruiser so
they had the advantage. Still, the defense masers kept pouring megajoules of
energy at the missiles and sheer numbers were on the side of the defense;
eleven maser cannons against only two missiles. Technology was on the side of
the missiles, the ship was Ruhar while the missiles were manufactured by the
advanced Bosphuraq. With invisible maser bolts streaking past, the smart
weapons rapidly changed course and speed, ejected decoys and projected false
images to fool Ruhar sensors. Derek’s stomach tied in knots while he sat
rigidly in the couch, wishing he could do something, anything. “Yes!” He pumped
a fist as one missile stumbled into a hail of maser beams and exploded. In its
death, the missile had one last move to play and it detonated its warhead in a
shape charge directed forward at the cruiser. High-density warhead pellets
travelling a quarter of lightspeed blasted the cruiser’s energy shield, heating
the degraded shield generators near the point of failure and lighting up that vulnerable
area of shield like a beacon for the missile coming behind.

As the last high-tech missile jinked sideways at
three thousand Gees toward the weakened shield, a nearby Ruhar destroyer exploded,
its jump drive coils having been punctured by a pair of railgun darts from the
enemy battlecruiser. To Derek’s terror, the blast of high-energy photons and
particles washing over the battlespace blanked out the 
Toaster
’s proximity sensors and the cruiser lost track of the last
missile for a crucial second.

The missile, for all its advanced technology,
also lost track of its quarry but that was of little importance, for the
missile knew the target’s last position and the big cruiser could not move far
in a short time. Dropping all evasive maneuvers, the missile fired its engine
for emergency thrust, on a course that took it straight into the heart of where
it knew the Ruhar ship had to be.

Derek had no time to give voice to his terror,
no time to shout a warning in case Irene had not seen the same data on her
console. The 
Ruh Tostella
 was tossed
aside like a child’s toy, spinning around so hard Derek’s head hit the back of
his helmet as the couch’s restraint system automatically held the helmet steady
to prevent him from snapping his neck. His brain rattled inside the shell of
his skull, he struggled to make sense of simply who and where he was, the flickering
displays in front of him forgotten.

“Der-Derek, you Ok?”

Derek coughed. “Shook up,” he admitted. In
combat, he could not indulge in any macho bullshit, the other pilot needed to
know he was not a hundred percent right then. “You?”

“Seeing double,” Irene blinked slowly to clear
her vision so she could understand what she thought she saw on the ship status
display. “The front of the ship, 
gone
?”

Derek instinctively wanted to shake his head, he
also knew that more jarring was the last thing his brain needed right then. The
ship was moving enough on its own, making the couch shake regularly with
intermittent hard bumps. The shaking was probably caused by the ship’s
thrusters attempting to control the wild spinning of the ship, which was flipping
on all three axes. Derek assumed the bumps were secondary explosions, a notion
confirmed by new lights flaring on the ship status display. Components were
overloading and exploding all over the forward half of the hull. That is, the
forward half of what was left, for a quarter of the ship’s original hull was
missing entirely. “Yeah, it’s gone. Everything forward of Frame Thirty Five is
just, 
missing
.” The sensors were
showing an extensive debris field around and mostly in front of the cruiser,
wreckage blasted away from the ship by an advanced-technology warhead. “We’re
dead in the water,” he weakly lifted a hand to point to the status display
which showed half the defensive maser cannons were offline and only half of
those were even in a restart cycle. Shields were weak and one shield, toward
what was now the nose of the ship, was disconnected from a power source. “Why
haven’t the birdbrains finished us?”

“Because we’re just a training cruiser,” Irene
guessed. Tapping the tactical display she added, “They have more important
targets.”

 

Outside the ship it was hell, with maser bolts,
particle beams and kinetic ordnance flying around thick and fast. The Bosphuraq
battlecruiser had already destroyed or disabled most of the Ruhar warships, the
main fight now was between the Jeraptha and Bosphuraq. The beetles had their
star carrier responding with every weapon they had, missiles ripple-firing from
launch tubes and masers burning continuously, but the superior strength of the
enemy’s heavier ship gave them an overwhelming advantage. Damaged Ruhar ships
were ejecting from their hardpoints, adding their own weapons to the fight,
knowing they had little chance for survival. Survival was not their goal and
escape was impossible, as the enemy had the battlespace blanketed in a strong
damping field. Two Ruhar destroyers were flying directly at the enemy ship on a
collision course, hoping to ram the battlecruiser. Their suicide tactic was
intended to provide a gap in the damping field, allowing the vital star carrier
to get away. Alert to the danger, the Bosphuraq were slamming the destroyers
with concentrated railgun fire. One, then the other destroyer was struck
several times until their shields were entirely knocked out, exposing them to
the comparatively weak maser bolts that seared deep into the noses of the
destroyers, making the forward armor bubble and melt, opening holes for the
maser energy to wreck the unprotected interiors of the ships.

The first destroyer veered away, corrected back
on course, then veered in the other direction, its engines offline, drifting
uselessly away into deep space. The crew of the second destroyer, knowing it
would be crippled and out of the fight before it could ram the enemy, activated
a self-destruct mechanism to drop reactor containment. A half second later, as
the white-hot fusion plasma burst outward and contacted the fully-charged banks
of jump drive capacitors, warheads of all missiles still in the ship’s
magazines detonated to add their energy to the maelstrom. The destroyer was
replaced by a small, short-lived sun that expanded outward in a sphere so only
part of the wavefront washed over the enemy battlecruiser, and at such distance
the Bosphuraq warship shrugged off the assault with only a minor fluctuation in
damping field strength.

With all Ruhar ships inside the damping field either
destroyed or disabled, including the unimportant training cruiser near the edge
of the field, the Bosphuraq turned the full fury of their weapons on the
hapless star carrier that was making a futile attempt to run away. Jeraptha
star carriers had reinforced shielding and armor protecting the critical
engineering components of the aft hull. Knowing that bit of tactical intel, the
Bosphuraq aimed masers, particle beams, railguns and missiles just forward of
the aft hull where it attached to the long spine of the ship. The only break in
their focus on the star carrier was to direct two missiles at the training
cruiser, to kill it before its mostly aimless course took it beyond the reach
of the damping field.

 

“We should jump,” Derek advised. As he spoke,
more missiles launched from the enemy ship, two of them curving toward the 
Toaster
 and accelerating hard. The
inbound missiles were highlighted by blinking red symbols and red streaks
projecting their courses. A pair of missiles were projected to impact the
training cruiser, and point defenses were mostly showing as offline.

“Jump? 
We

can’t do anything, we’re just running a sim-Oh.”

“Yeah,” Derek tapped his console where an alert
was flashing that the simulation had been abruptly ended, and the auxiliary
control center now had full authorization to maneuver the ship. “Command
authority automatically transferred to the auxiliary station when we lost the
bridge,” he declared, remembering that tidbit of info from the Welcome Aboard
package they received when they’d been assigned to the cruiser. Derek never
imagined he would need to remember such an obscure piece of trivia. “We’re the
pilots now, everyone aboard is counting on 
us
.”

Irene turned to look at the hatch, hoping
trained Ruhar crew would come in to relieve them. That, she saw with a shock,
was 
not
 going to happen. The hatch
had scorch marks on the inner surface, and the upper left corner appeared bent,
bowed inward. Whatever had happened in the passageway outside, it must have
been bad. Very bad.

“Ok, all right, yeah, sure,” Irene’s mouth
babbled as her mind caught up with the situation. “We’ve never performed a
jump. Or been trained in jump procedure.”

“We’ve both read the jump manual a dozen times
or more,” Derek’s voice was more squeaky than the soothing tone he tried to
project. “We can do this. If we can’t,” he swallowed hard, “the ship is dead
anyway.”

“Right, Ok, good,” Irene took deep breaths to
psych herself up to do the impossible. “We’re caught in the edge of a damping
field,” Irene noted, even as her fingers called up the jump drive controls. She
had only ever seen those controls on her laptop, not ever in a simulator and
never for real. “Local damping field strength is, uh,” reading Ruhar script was
not her best skill, “thirty two percent?” She struggled to recall something she
had read only once. “What’s the
safety limit for a successful jump?”

“Twenty eight percent,” Derek stated. Or was it
twenty nine? Or thirty eight? Other than casually scanning a high-level
briefing document about jump operations, he had no experience with the system.

“We can’t risk a jump.”

“The red thingies are getting closer to the
green thingy!” Derek jabbed a finger at the display in front of him, where red
symbols for incoming missiles were homing in on the 
Toaster.
 “We need to jump 
now.
”

“If we jump inside a damping field, the drive
could tear itself apart.”

“If we don’t jump, those missiles 
will 
tear us apart. That star carrier is
about to blow any second, it’s getting 
hammered
.
We need to do it. 
Now
.”

What the hell, Irene told herself, decision
made. “Can you find where the preprogrammed jump options list is? We can’t
program a jump by ourselves.” Even if a jump was programmed in the drive
navigation system, would it be usable without adjusting for the damping effect?
She did not know, and that was the problem.

Derek peered at his console, touching unfamiliar
controls. “I think this is it. I think. Uh, yes! System shows one hundred
percent capacity,” he noted. That had to be the jump drive capacitors, the 
Toaster
 had not jumped in days, so the
capacitors would be fully charged. The ship rocked from multiple maser beam
strikes, yellow lights on the display showing where the white-hot beams had
burned through the defensive shields protecting the critical aft engineering
section.

“Select the second option and authorize it,” she
ordered as she tried to find the controls to release power from the capacitors
into the jump coils. One thing she did know for certain was that the coils
could not safely hold a charge for long, once power began flowing from the
capacitors the coils needed to be used or the power discharged quickly.

“Why the 
second

option?”

“Those Bosphuraq knew where the star carrier was
jumping to, we don’t want to make our jump obvious by using the primary Assembly
Zone option. Ready?” She didn’t need a reply as she could see the second option
on the list was now blinking blue. “Five, four, three,” she reached out with
her right hand to touch Derek, the jump now being on automatic.

Derek took her hand, squeezed it and turned to
say something, when the ship violently skewed and shuddered as the Jeraptha
star carrier exploded.

Then they jumped.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWELVE
 “Easy,
easy, Ma’am, it’s not a race,” Dave cautioned as Perkins got her safety line
snagged on a piece of debris protruding from a gaping hole in the ship’s hull.

“I’m fine, Czajka. You’re not my babysitter.”

“No, Ma’am. I do have more spacewalk time than
you. Let me go first.”

“Why?” Perkins was predisposed to be irritated,
because of the dangerous situation, the lack of time and the circuitous route
they had to take toward the ship’s engineering section. And because Sergeant
Czajka acted like he needed to hold her hand the whole way. “Because you are
younger and a man?”

“No, Colonel. Because, if one of us is
expendable, it’s not you. There’s a whole lot of stuff attached to the hull
that could kill us,” he pointed to sparks arcing from another hole in the hull,
“between here and that airlock. I should scout ahead.”

The sergeant’s reply had chastened her, she had
let impatience, anger and fear overcome her need for cool judgement. “Czajka, 
none
 of us are expendable. Not humans,
not out here. We don’t know if anyone is left alive on Earth. UNEF on Paradise
may be all that is left. Thank you, go ahead and check for anything that might
blow up in our faces, but 
be careful
.
Careful, you got that? I can’t, I don’t want to lose you,” she added with a
lump in her throat.

“Yes, Colonel,” Dave’s feeble grin could be seen
in the faint lights illuminating his helmet faceplate.

The ship had successfully jumped away from the battlespace,
or successfully enough, and the Bosphuraq ship had not pursued. After a
terrifying fifteen minutes trapped in their designated section of the ship, not
having any idea what was going on as the comm system was offline, comms were
partially restored and Perkins had been able to use her command codes to get a
rough and confusing status report. What she saw shocked her. The entire forward
section of the ship was missing, simply 
gone
,
and the hull was breached in multiple areas. Main power was off, even emergency
backup systems were spotty and intermittent. Attempts to contact anyone in
authority were a failure until Perkins located a feature that tracked the
ship’s officers. 
One
, there was only
one adult crewman whose comm system indicated activity, and that person was
several sections aft, in the primary engineering control center. That was why
Perkins and Czajka were in spacesuits, clambering along the outside of the
ship. Much of the ship’s interior was a dangerously impassible shambles, with
airtight doors closed and not responding to the codes Perkins had been given.
She had quickly decided her best option was to travel aft on the ship’s hull
and enter the engineering center through an airlock, despite the danger. The
ship shuddered occasionally as one system or another overloaded and exploded or
pipes ruptured, or a thruster unhelpfully fired all by itself. To move at all
required clipping a safety line, crawling along the hull using whatever
handholds were available, and then clipping another safety line. They could not
rely on the expedient tactic of floating between handholds, for the ship might
suddenly jerk away beneath them and they would drift out to the end of the
safety line, wasting precious time and exposing themselves to the jagged bits
of debris surrounding the ship like a predatory cloud. It was a damned good
thing, Perkins told herself, that the 
Toaster

was a training ship, for the hull had regularly spaced handholds and attachment
points for safety lines that would never be allowed on the exterior of a true
warship.

“Got it!” Dave announced as he hooked his boots
into a clamp at the bottom of the airlock. “Thank God! It’s active, Ma’am, I’m
starting the cycle now.”

“Would it be best to wait for me to get there?”

“No,” Dave shook his head though the gesture was
barely visible in the blackness of interstellar space. “Having the door open
will give you more to grab onto. It’s opening,” he noted with great relief,
swallowing his fear that the airlock might refuse to respond to a human.

That airlock was intended for a single
maintenance person, not groups of trainees, and it was a very tight fit for two
people wearing spacesuits. “Uh, Colonel, maybe I should wait outside while you
cycle through.”

“Screw that, Czajka, get in here right now. I’m
not risking this thing crapping out on us while you’re out there. That’s an
order,” she added when he hesitated.

It was a tight fit, even a tight squeeze. They
managed to stuff themselves into the airlock enough so no limbs stuck out to
block the door sensors, and the outer door slid slowly closed. “Czajka,”
Perkins grunted as his helmet pushed her head to the side at an awkward angle
and one of his knees was jammed into her crotch hard enough to make her left
hip hurt. “Unless you’re gonna buy me dinner first-”

“Oh, sorry,” he tried moving his leg but there
wasn’t much he could do about it. His right hand was free so he used it to
activate the emergency pressurization cycle, using a bottle of stored air to
rapidly flood the lock with air. In moments, the inner door’s locking pins retracted.
“Door’s opening,” he gasped as one of her elbows dug into his chest hard enough
to leave a bruise. “The engineering compartment holds air,” he reported, as the
pressure gauge read ninety two percent of normal.

Perkins got herself untangled from the sergeant
and through the inner door first. Her hopes faded as her gaze took in the main
compartment’s condition. Most displays were dark, with others flickering or
displaying static or scrolling lines of gibberish. Without gravity, objects
both broken or merely loose floated everywhere, a tool bounced off her helmet
before she could see it coming. “Come on,” she waved to Czajka without turning
to look at him. Keeping a firm grip on handholds, she pulled herself across the
compartment to where an injured Ruhar officer was loosely strapped to a table,
surrounded by four cadets. As she approached, she reached up with a thumb to
crack open her faceplate and swing it up, using her lips to pull the helmet
microphone closer to her mouth. “Hello? I am Lieutenant Colonel Perkins of the
human ExForce,” she spoke slowly, carefully enunciating each word so the
translator would not make unfortunate mistakes.

A female cadet who had been literally hovering
over the injured officer looked up, and Perkins recognized her as Jinn Garnor,
a girl Nert liked very much. “Colonel Perkins,” Jinn turned toward the
newcomers with an expression that was a mixture of fear and relief. The human
Colonel being a senior officer might take some of the responsibility off Jinn’s
shoulders, but since Perkins was an alien, she was not likely to be of much use
in the crisis. “Urmat Datha is badly injured,” she put a hand over her mouth to
contain her fear as the Urmat shuddered and blood bubbled from his lips.

“We need to move him to the medical station,”
Perkins did not like the paleness of the officer’s lips, nor the tiny bubbles
of blood exhaled from his nose with every labored breath.

“We tried, we can’t,” Jinn explained. “The
passageways are all blocked. I-how did 
you

get here?” She looked toward the big door at the far end of the compartment,
which still had its locking bars engaged to hold it shut.

“We spacewalked along the hull outside.”

“You did?” Jinn’s eyebrows lifted, and again
Perkins was struck by how some expressions were universal between species.
Between bipedal species that walked upright, she reminded herself, and only
those few species she had met. “That is too danger-”

“No more dangerous than being in here,” Perkins
ducked and pushed away a broken piece of metal and composite that had floated
in front of her face. “Urmat Datha is the only survivor of the entire crew?”
She knew the 
Ruh Tostella
 had
departed Paradise with a limited number of adult crew, as senior cadets were
expected to gain real shipboard experience by standing watches, performing
routine maintenance and other roles that would be filled by fully-trained adult
crew members. Losing the forward part of the ship had taken away the bridge and
command crew with it, but how could the Urmat be the only survivor?

“We think so, yes,” Jinn nodded a bit too
vigorously, her fear evident. “There were seven of us on duty here, with Urmat
Datha in charge. Klasta Amatu and Cadet Surtil were killed,” she looked at the
blackened mark on the hull. “It’s just us now. None of us are trained as
medics, are you?” She looked to Dave hopefully.

“Not in Ruhar physiology,” Perkins frowned. “He
needs the resources of a full medical station. His suit,” with one gentle hand,
she wiped away some of the still-wet blood on Datha’s right side, and did not
like what she found. A rip! A tear wide enough that the suit’s nano repair
mechanism was not able to close the fatal opening. “Can we patch this?”

“We used the patch kit for Cadet Surtil. That
was Datha’s order, but it did not save him,” Jinn looked sadly to where the
unlucky Surtil’s body was strapped into a chair. Perkins could see at least
three patches attached to that suit, she thought the patches had done their
job, but Surtil had died anyway. Datha had probably thought he was being noble
by telling the cadets to use the patches on a crew member more badly injured
than himself, but Perkins knew that was the kind of amateur wishful thinking
civilians indulged in. As the lone surviving adult officer, Datha should have
known his duty was to have his own wounds tended to, so he could assist others.
Now, everyone aboard the ship might all die, and there was nothing noble about
that. “The nanomachines,” Jinn glanced up to see if Perkins understood the
translation. “They worked to repair the suit, then after we blocked the air leak,
they pulled inside to stop Datha’s blood loss.”

“Your nano tech can work on mechanical and
biological systems?” Perkins asked in surprise.

“No,” Jinn reached up to wipe away the tears
brimming in her eyes. “The suit can inject medical nanobots into a user, and
they did, but-They needed help. The mechanical nano,” the translator stumbled
over the term, “as you said, it can only act to block blood vessels. It plugs
leaks,” she looked up at Perkins, seeking understanding.

“You did what you could. The Urmat needs skilled
medical treatment. Is there another suit available?”

“No, there are no spares available now. The
locker with spare suits was damaged, that is where Surtil was when he, when he
was hit.” Jinn closed her eyes tightly, causing droplets of tear to float away
from her face. “He can, he can use my suit,” she offered.

Perkins looked from Datha to the anxious cadet,
judging their sizes. “I don’t think he will fit.”

“He can use my suit, Ma’am,” Dave began to pull
off his helmet.

“Forget it, Czajka. You know what it’s like out
there, you need to guide us back. Uh, you,” she pointed to another cadet, “you
look about Datha’s size. Get out of-”

“You,” Datha’s eyes opened and he reached up to
grasp her forearm, missed, and his arm bounced off the table. Gently, Perkins
caught his hand and wrapped her glove around his. The Ruhar officer tried to
squeeze his hand but his strength was gone. “Ship?”

“Badly damaged, the forward hull is missing,”
Perkins did not sugar-coat the information. “We’re on backup power and that is
failing. We have no shields, no propulsion, sensors are scrambled and that
Bosphuraq battlecruiser could jump in on top of us at any second. Urmat Datha, you
need to know right now that we believe you are the only adult crewman to
survive.” Perkins told the truth without sugar-coating anything. Datha was an
adult, a crewman, an officer, with the rank of ‘Urmat’ being equivalent to a
major in the US Army. The unvarnished truth is the least they owed to him.

“Everyone, else, 
dead
?” His words came out in a wet whisper, bubbles of blood
choking him as he spoke.

“Yes,” Perkins squeezed the man’s hand. The dead
crewmen were his shipmates, friends, people he might have served with for
years. All gone now. “There are senior cadets who could assume-”

“No,” Datha declared with vehemence beyond his
strength, and it threw him into a coughing fit, bubbles of blood spewing from
his mouth onto the front of Perkin’s suit. She did not flinch, merely held the
Urmat’s hand while he recovered. “You,” he pointed to Perkins with an index
finger, “are an officer. Senior officer. Your rank is equivalent to our
‘Ormath’,” he paused to take a breath. Perkins knew that was not quite true, as
the rank structure of the Ruhar military was more complicated than the
commissioned ranks of the US Army, but the point was not relevant to the
situation. “You must take command.”

“
Me
?”
Perkins pointed to herself as all four Ruhar cadets sucked in sharp breaths.
“Urmat Datha, I am not Ruhar. I am an alien. Surely a-”

“A senior cadet,” he coughed, “is not an officer.
Trainee. You,” he scrunched up his eyes as a wave of pain struck him. “Have
experience. 
Combat
 experience. You
take command.”

“Um,” Perkins looked to Czajka, both of them
stunned.

With his other hand, Datha pawed for the zPhone
on his belt, Jinn pulled it out and put it into his free hand, as Perkins
released the hand she had been holding. With both of his hands so shaky and
weak he needed Jinn to steady the phone, he pressed buttons and a command
application popped up on the screen. Datha spoke quietly into the phone. “Urmat
Farpew Datha, transferring command of the warship 
Ruh Tostella
 to Lieutenant Colonel,” he looked up to see if his
pronunciation was correct, “Emily Perkins, of the human Expeditionary Force.”

“Transfer of command acknowledged,” a mechanical
voice issued from his phone at the same time Perkins’ own phone beeped and
vibrated.

She looked at her phone, seeing a cascade of
command authorizations scrolling past. They were all in Ruhar script, she could
barely read half of the words. How the hell could she-Just then, her phone
must have realized she needed to read English, for all the commands blinked and
the words were then recognizable. She was in command of a Ruhar warship?! No,
she was in command of a battered hulk that was leaking air and had no source of
power, with a crew of frightened cadets, in deep interstellar space that was now
a warzone. “I accept command,” she saluted Datha, using the
two-fingers-to-her-cheek gesture of the Ruhar. “Until you are able to return to
duty. Sergeant Czajka, take two cadets with you and get Urmat Datha to the
medical station. First priority is to restore main, or at least auxiliary
power.” Her fuzzy recollection of the ship’s systems was that auxiliary power
was a sort of fuel cell that did not have enough output to run more than basic
systems. And a fuel cell needed a fuel tank. With the hull so peppered with
breaches that it looked like Swiss cheese, did she dare hope a fuel tank had
survived unscathed? “Cadet Garnor, who is the senior engineering cadet?”

“Sath Callon, but I have not been able to
contact her. She was,” Jinn’s lower lip quivered. “Her duty station was in the
forward section of the ship.”

Perkins knew she had asked the wrong question.
“Who is the senior engineering cadet right 
here
,
right now?”

“That is me,” Jinn swallowed, her incisors
sticking out over her lower lip. “
Ormath

Perkins, I am not qualified-”

“You are as qualified as anyone available.
Sergeant Czajka, when you get forward, pass the word for engineering cadets to
make their way aft, we need all the help here we can get.”

“Ormath, I barely know-”

“
Senior

Cadet Garnor, I know nothing about these systems,” she waved a hand to
encompass the shattered equipment around them. “We are in interstellar space,
without power, and with a Bosphuraq battlecruiser probably hunting us. If we
can’t restore power, we are dead, is that clear? You cadets came aboard the-”
she almost referred to the ship as ‘
Toaster
’
which now seemed inappropriate. “The 
Ruh
Tostella
, to gain real-life experience. Think of this,” Perkins forced a
smile she didn’t feel, “as a problem added to a training simulation.”

“A problem in a training sim, right,” Jinn bit
her lip as she thought. A sim. Yes, she could think of the disaster as a
particularly challenging, an outrageously, ridiculously unfairly challenging
test in a sim. That way, she could push the very likely possibility of
impending death to the back of her mind and concentrate on the problem.
“Right,” she looked up at the other three cadets. “Pranz, you are with me-”

While two cadets got the now-unconscious Datha
out of his useless suit, Dave pulled Perkins aside. “Ma’am, maybe you should go
with the Urmat.”

“No, Sergeant, I need to be here. Priority One
is restoring power, or this ship is nothing but a composite tube that will be
getting cold soon. If Garnor needs my command codes to reactivate a system,” she
waved her phone, “I need to be 
here
.
Right now, this is the heart of the ship, the rest of the hull is just dead
weight without the reactors.”

 

A few minutes after Dave went out through the
airlock with the injured Datha and a cadet, Perkins was playing with the new command
features of her zPhone, when she found a way to track the lifesigns of everyone
aboard. It was also a way to compare the lifesigns against the crew roster,
giving her an unwelcome confirmation of how many Ruhar were dead, including all
of the adult crew other than Datha. Twenty four Ruhar cadets were also among
the dead, including the senior engineering cadet. After giving her a sense of
the damage that made her feel sick, the list then made her heart soar. Irene and
Derek’s lifesigns were strong! And Nert! The young hamster was doing well
except for an elevated heartrate, which was expected under the circumstances.
She clicked on the icon for Captain Striebich, and a comm channel opened. “Captain
Striebich?”

“Colonel Perkins! Ohhhhh, it is good to hear
from you, Ma’am!” Irene’s voice trembled with relief. “We are in the auxiliary
control center, we’re kind of trapped here.”

“The Ruhar can’t get you out?”

“We’re alone, Ma’am. There’s vacuum outside the
hatch, I think we have a slow leak in here somewhere, my ears have been popping
and it’s getting harder to breathe. We have flightsuits and helmets, so we can
go on internal oxygen when we have to.”

“You and Bonsu are alone? Then,” she thought
back. The nose of the 
Toaster
 had
been blown away several minutes before the ship jumped away from the
battlespace. “Who jumped the ship?”

“Uh, that was us, Ma’am. We did the best we
could, I don’t think we had a choice at the time. We were tracking two missiles
running straight at us, our shields were knocked back and the proximity sensors
could barely see anything.”

“When did the two of you get trained on jump
procedures?”

“We, uh, kinda didn’t,” Perkins heard Derek join
the conversation, and Irene put her phone on speaker. “We had to wing it based
on training briefs we studied. Ma’am, it was either risk the jump drive blowing
up in our faces, or let those missiles kill us for certain. I figured, if the
drive coils blew, that would at least confuse enemy sensors for a while, maybe help
the star carrier get away.”

“That was a ballsy call, you two. A good call.”

“Colonel? The rest of the team?” Irene asked
anxiously.

“They’re all fine. And Nert, he’s fine, too. The
Ruhar crew, ah, they’re not so good. The entire crew is dead, except for one
badly wounded engineering officer.”

“
All

of the crew?” Derek’s tone was shocked. “Oh shit. The cadets are in charge
now?”

“No, Bonsu, 
I

am.”

“Um, sorry, Ma’am, what did you say?”

“The injured officer transferred command
authority to me.”

“They can do that? We’re 
aliens
 to them,” Derek mused aloud.

“Apparently they can,” Perkins said without
humor. “Right now I’ve got cadets trying to get the reactor restarted, that
tells you our situation. We’re dead in the water, and that Bosphuraq battlecruiser
might jump our asses before we know it.”

“Ma’am? I don’t think that’s very likely,” Irene
stated hopefully. “We made a bad jump, really dirty because we caught the edge
of the damping field, so the resonance of our jump field must have been really chaotic.
And the battlespace was full of high-energy particles and spatial distortion. I
don’t think that enemy ship could track our jump endpoint, not easily.”

“Christ, Striebich, that’s the first good news
I’ve heard all day! We may be safe because we screwed up the jump?”

“Colonel, right now, even we have no idea where
we jumped to,” Derek admitted. “Until we get the nav system back online, we’re
blind. Although,” the wheels in his head began spinning with an idea, “we could
launch a dropship, if any of them are still spaceworthy. Their nav gear will
fix our position for us.”

“A dropship’s sensors can establish our position
with enough accuracy for us to program a jump?” Perkins asked hopefully, before
realizing she had gotten ahead of herself. “Oh, forget it, we can’t jump anyway
without the reactors.”

“That’s not true, Ma’am,” Irene reported,
cringing as she looked at Derek who was worried she had gotten their CO’s hopes
up for nothing. “The reactors provide juice to the jump drive capacitors, but
our capacitor banks still have a seventy two percent charge. We’re good for
another jump. Except we don’t know where we are. And the drive control system
is offline.”

“
And
,
we have no idea how to program a jump,” Derek added helpfully. “Sorry, Ma’am.”

“That’s all right, Bonsu, I sure as hell don’t
need people trying to put a good spin on things for me. The two of you will be
all right in there for a while?”

“Affirmative,” Irene replied with her voice
sounding distinctly unhappy. “We’re sure you have other priorities.”

“You got that right. I’ll see if a cadet crew
can get you out of there, but we need pilots anyway, and that aux station is
the only place the ship can be flown from?”

“It is,” Irene agreed.

“Then sit tight. Ah, Striebich, Bonsu? I can’t
tell you how good it is to hear you’re both still with us.”

 

Perkins had no sooner ended the call when Dave
pinged her. 

“Colonel? We have a problem. I think Datha is dead. He’s not responding at all
now, and the pulse indicator on his wristpad is reading zero. It could be a
glitch, but I shined a light in his faceplate and it looks like he’s not
breathing.”

“Shit.” She clicked the icon for Datha on her
phone, and it showed his lifesigns had ceased. “Where are you?”

“Still outside the ship, about halfway. We had
to take a different route, looks like a power relay under the hull blew after
you and I went past, it’s arcing real bad.”

Perkins paused to think, though Cadet Garnor was
waving for her attention. “Czajka, keep going. Datha may still be alive and
we’ve got to try to save him. Ruhar can go longer without oxygen than we can.
And we need you to round up engineering cadets to send back here. Oh, also,”
she tried to snap her fingers but the suit gloves muffled the sound. “See if
you can find a route back here that stays inside the ship. There must be some
passageways that aren’t blocked.”

“Obstructions aren’t the only problem, Ma’am. A
lot of the interior is exposed to vacuum, or there’s power relays blowing.”

“Yeah, yeah. We’ll need to get a crew working on
disconnecting relays and plugging holes. I’ll have Jarrett and Colter organize
something.” Damn it! What else did she need to think about, before a disaster
overwhelmed them? She turned her focus back to the immediate engineering
problem. “Garnor, what is it?”

 

Urmat Datha indeed had died while being
transported to the medical station, which anyway had no qualified doctor to
assist the many wounded, and the medical bot was operating on reduced capacity.
Irene and Derek had been strapped into pilot couches, and the other Mavericks
had dutifully secured themselves into their beds when the maneuvering alarm
sounded. The cadets did not have the luxury of strapping in and waiting, most
of them had designated action stations, so many had been moving through the
ship when it got hit. A dozen young people had been killed or severely injured
when the ship lost its nose, because they hadn’t yet reached their action
stations; others were lost when masers or railguns or missiles tore open their
section of the ship. Emily Perkins considered it ironic that the uselessness of
humans aboard an alien ship is what had saved their lives.

She also considered that a training ship full of
teenage cadets had no business being dragged into action with a real
battlegroup. If it had been her decision, she would have jumped the star
carrier to a safe location and dropped off the 
Ruh Tostella
, before taking the battlegroup into harm’s way. As it
had not been her decision, she needed to focus on what she could affect, right
then. Jinn Garnor was overwhelmed with the task of first stabilizing backup
power, then trying to determine if it was safe to restart the reactor. She
begged Perkins for more cadets who specialized in engineering field,
particularly power generation systems.

It was time for Perkins to speak to the cadets,
to speak to the 
crew
, she reminded
herself, for cadets were the only crew the ship had. How to do that? She
fumbled with her phone, not wanting to distract Jinn from her work, and not
wanting to show how unfamiliar she was with basic ship systems.

Ok, there it is, she found after four minutes of
almost random clicking around the screens. The entire communications system was
not offline due to lack of power, it had been simply been disabled and needed
to be rebooted. Her command codes allowed Perkins to call individual people,
but otherwise comms were squelched. That was, she vaguely recalled, standard
procedure in combat when a ship’s stealth field was inactive. Internal comms
posed a risk of electromagnetic radiation leaking beyond the ship and betraying
it to enemy sensors. That procedure was great in most conditions, but while
outside the ship, Perkins had seen so many power conduits arcing that the ship
was lit up like a Christmas tree. She found the codes to re-enable the shipwide
comm system, took a breath, and spoke to the crew. Her crew.

“Attention, all hands, this is Lieutenant
Colonel Perkins-”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTEEN
“-that is all,” said the voice of the alien, and
Bifft stared in utter astonishment at the speaker in the wall panel. The alien
had spoken in heavily-accented Ruhar, but instead of appreciating the endless
hours of effort she had devoted to mastering a completely foreign language,
Bifft was insulted by how her primitive tongue butchered the words.

“An 
alien
?
In command of our ship?” Bifft raged, spitting in his fury. Perkins was not
only an alien, she was from a backward species that barely had spaceflight when
the Ruhar arrived at their disgusting planet. A species that had come to
Gehtanu as an enemy occupation force, and only recently had renounced their allegiance
to the Kristang coalition. As natural-born cowards, the humans would switch
sides again as soon as it was convenient, Bifft declared. This Perkins woman
had only been aboard the 
Ruh Tostella

for a month, how could she possibly be so insufferably arrogant to think she
was qualified to command a Ruhar cruiser? A ship where every piece of
technology was far beyond her understanding?

Bifft raged and railed against the injustice, to
the point of battering an innocent wall panel with a wrench. The action only
caused a scratch on the panel and sent Bifft spinning off across the
compartment out of control in the zero gravity, injuring his dignity. His
companions did their best to quell their leader’s spiteful temper. They assured
him that Urmat Datha must not have known Bifft was alive when command was transferred
to the alien. Or, the alien had somehow coerced Datha, it was well known the
humans were desperate for recognition, desperate for any opportunity to show
they could be equal to the clearly-superior Ruhar. Bifft should be in command,
only he could save them. Was that not why Bifft already commanded the cadet
corps aboard the ship?

After soaking up enough praise to soothe his
outraged ego, Bifft made an angry cutting motion with one hand, to end the babbling
of his underlings. “Datha was injured and not competent to transfer command. He
was a good man, a good officer, but he had no authority to give this 
warship
,” he emphasized that word, “to
an alien. A first-year cadet,” he thought of the traitorous Nert, “knows more
about this ship than the human Perkins does. Do you know she was a staff
assistant, not a line officer?” His friends nodded vigorous agreement, pleased
that Bifft was back to his old self. “This ship is disabled, in deep space, on
our own. Life support is failing, the reactors are offline. Backup power will
be strained by providing life support to the aliens,” he fairly spat in
disgust. “In desperate times, hard decisions must be made. That is the nature
of leadership.” His followers gazed at him with rapt attention, knowing Bifft
was the person they needed to make the tough decisions, the unpleasant
decisions, the 
necessary
 decisions.
The decisions that had to be made, soon, or they would all die.

“Datha was not competent when he acted, and he
was never authorized to appoint Perkins to command, so his action is invalid,”
Bifft declared, and his followers looked at each other and nodded with grim
expressions. “We need to act, or the ship is doomed. We need to act 
now
. It is our duty.” Bifft picked up
the wrench again, tapping the head forcefully into a palm. “Who is with me?”

 

With the help of cadets who knew the ship much
better than he did, Dave found a way to the engineering compartment using
passageways inside the ship. Where the way was not clear, the cadets sliced
away obstructions with plasma torches, cut power to relays that were sparking
and restored emergency power to stuck bulkhead doors. Shortly after testing that
the way was indeed as safe as it could be made, Dave led a group of engineering
cadets back to speak with Jinn Garnor, and most of them went back up the
passageway with Dave, to begin making repairs as directed by Jinn, with a few
cadets remaining to work on the puzzling task of determining if it was safe to
restart a reactor. Perkins visibly relaxed, or at least visibly was no longer feeling
the weight of an entire planet was on her shoulders.

Another group of cadets came to get
instructions, accompanied by the other Verd-Kris aboard, a male with the rank
of ‘Surgun’ named Krok-aus-tal Jates. He was older than Dave and naturally
assumed authority, although he deferred to Perkins without apparent resentment.
The Mavericks had trained with Jates only three times, as he was already fully qualified
for spaceborne duty, and his role aboard the ship was to train Ruhar cadets in real-life
space infantry tactics, whether they liked it or not. When the cadets were
leaving to go perform whatever critical tasks were needed elsewhere in the
ship, Jates lingered behind.

Perkins was huddled with Jinn Garnor, providing
moral support and encouragement since she had no idea how most systems aboard
the ship worked, when with the corner of her eye she saw more cadets come
floating in through the open hatch. She ignored them until she could not.

“Nobody move!” The shout rang out in the
compartment.

Perkins spun to see who had spoken, her mind
flashing to scenarios of someone warning of a dangerous condition with a power
relay or some other technical problem. She was astonished to see a group of three
Ruhar cadets pointing weapons at her. Bifft held a rifle and his two friends
had sidearms. The ranking cadet made a show of holding the rifle in dramatic
fashion at his hip, keeping the muzzle trained on Perkins. “I said, 
nobody move
! That means all of you,” he
glared angrily around the compartment, sounding like a bank robber in an old
movie.

“Everyone, stay where you are,” Perkins ordered.
“Cadet Colhsoon, what do you think you are doing?”

“I don’t have to think anything, I am taking
control of this ship back from you. I am assuming command, effective
immediately. No 
alien
 should be in
command of our warships.” He shot a look of hatred at Jates, who had made a
fool of Bifft during several training exercises. “No alien should be aboard one
of our ships, unless they are in the brig.”

Perkins took a breath to keep the fear from her
voice. It didn’t work. “Where did you get those weapons? The armory is locked
down!” It was locked down, she knew that for certain because her initial tour
of the ship had included the armory, or technically the heavy door of the
armory. Even the executive officer giving her the tour did not have
authorization to open the armory door. Perkins had been surprised by that bit
of information, she was even more surprised to learn the 
Toaster
 had an armory. Why did a training ship need live weapons,
she had asked. The XO had explained the armory was left over from when the
cruiser was a frontline warship, and it had been kept in case the 
Ruh Tostella
 needed to quickly be
returned to fleet service.

“It 
was

locked,” Bifft replied with a smirk. “You are as ignorant as you are stupid and
primitive. This is 
our
 ship, we know
how to bypass security measures,” he winked at his friends, who grinned back,
pleased at his cleverness.

“That would take an impressive level of skill,”
Jates said in an admiring tone, while with his eyes he gave Perkins a look she
could not interpret. Was the Kristang going to join the mutiny, to save himself
and Tutula? Or, was something else going on? “Let me guess, you cut through the
power circuits behind the bulkhead to the armory?”

“Good guess, 
Surgun

Jates,” Bifft replied with a frown, unhappy about a member of an enemy species
knowing such dangerous secrets about a Ruhar warship, even a ship as obsolete
as the 
Ruh Tostella
. “I suggest you
forget such knowledge.”

“What next?” Perkins had used the time to regain
her courage. She was determined to defy the little shit cadet, and not let him
see her sweat. “You kill us, throw us out an airlock?”

“No, although as you are an enemy species, and
you unlawfully took control of a warship, I would be within my rights under
combat conditions to kill all of you,” Bifft bluffed, knowing that was a lie.

“We’re not in combat now!” Dave pushed himself
forward and Perkins restrained him with one hand.

“Do not be afraid, little fool. I don’t plan to
kill you, not directly. We will put your kind and the two Kristang into a
dropship with its flight controls disabled. You will float away,” the cadet
leader made a mocking gesture miming an object spinning slowly through space.
“Once you are beyond communications range, the ship will deactivate your
command authority,” he glared at Perkins. “Command will then fall to the next
senior officer,” he gloated, pointing to his chest.

“That is an interesting plan, a good plan,”
Jates said.

“Thank-” Bifft reacted to the praise before he
could remind himself that he didn’t care what an enemy species thought of him.

“Too bad,” Jates made a honking sound and sent a
thick wad of spit spinning through the air toward the three armed cadets. “You
won’t ever get to put your plan into action, you dumb little shit.”

“What?” Bifft’s aim wavered as he flailed his
legs awkwardly to avoid being splattered with the disgusting projectile. Held
steady by his two friends, he regained his composure and pointed the rifle at
the Verd-Kris. “I could shoot you!”

“Ha! I’ve seen you with a rifle, Biffty-boy.
Safest place for me if you’re shooting is right where I am, because you’ll
never hit me from there.”

“I-” The senior cadet’s finger was flexing on
the trigger and Perkins reached out to restrain Jates, but the Verd-Kris
warrior was not to be interfered with.

“What? Did I hurt your wittle 
feelings
?” Jates sneered. “You want to
run to your momma because I said mean things to you? Would wittle Biffty-boy
like his mommy to pat his furry wittle head and make the bad words stop?”

“I swear I will shoot you right here!”

One of Bifft’s friends tried to whisper
something in the agitated cadet’s ear, but he was not listening. “You stay
back! I’m warning you!” He shouted at Jates, gesturing with the rifle that was
now properly held to his shoulder, his bravado gone.

“Boy,” Jates said in a low, calm voice as he
drifted toward the three mutinous cadets. “You either give that rifle to
someone who knows how to use it, or you pull that trigger. We all know you
don’t have the guts to shoot me, so stop making a fool out of yourself and
surrender that weapon.”

“I’ll do it! I swear I’ll do it! He’s coming at
me,” Bifft’s head swiveled to his friends for support. “You saw this! I have no
choice!”

“Bifft, he’s just-” One of his friends pleaded.

“You asked for this!” Bifft bellowed as Jates
drew within arm’s length of the muzzle. “This is your fault!” He squeezed the
trigger gently as he had been taught, though his eyes partly closed which was 
not
 proper procedure.

Nothing happened. Frantically, Bifft swam
backwards in the air, one eye on the oncoming Jates and the other checking the
rifle’s safety and power meters. They were both set correctly, so why was the
rifle not firing? Were the maser exciters burned out? With one finger, he
switched to flechette rounds even though he knew using that ammunition could
cause carnage in the compartment.

Nothing happened.

Jates reached out with lightning-fast speed and
snatched the rifle from Bifft’s hands, breaking two of the cadet’s fingers as
the bigger and stronger Verd-Kris yanked it away. The two other cadets shot at
Jates but they, too, had no results as their sidearms refused to fire. Almost
casually, Jates spun the rifle around in his hands and bashed Bifft in the face
with the butt, sending the senior cadet spinning off toward the still-open main
door with blood spraying from his broken nose. Flipping the rifle around and
setting it against his shoulder, Jates faced the two other would-be mutineers.
“Are you two going to be smart and hand over those pistols, or will you give me
the pleasure of bashing your stupid heads together?”

The Ruhar looked at each other in brief moment
of a panic before swallowing hard and meekly handing their pistols to the
hulking Verd-Kris, who tucked them into the tool belt of his spacesuit.

Emily Perkins felt she could dare breathe again,
after a shameful moment of not knowing what to do. Surgun Jates had years of
experience dealing with and training Ruhar cadets, so she had let him take the
lead, but if he had been killed, she knew it would be her fault. “
Surgun
 Jates,” she emphasized his rank,
“that was a terrible risk. Do not do anything like that again,” she scolded
while suppressing a shudder of relief.

“I was in no danger,” Jates slung the rifle over
one shoulder and waved for Bifft’s friends to attend to the cadet who had tried
to forcefully take over the ship. “These weapons will not fire.”

“I saw that,” Perkins admitted. “How did you
know that? Have all the weapons in the armory been disabled?”

“No, just these, and any others this amateur
gang of morons stole from the armory. All weapons inside the armory should be
fully active.”

“How 
did

you know about that?” Dave whispered in amazement. “If these Ruhar cadets
didn’t know, how-”

Jates tilted his head in a gesture like a shrug.
“The officers of the Ruhar fleet are not concerned about their own cadets
attempting to seize control. Not so with aliens such as we Verd-Kris, we are
still not fully trusted. During our initial orientation tour of this ship, the
officer guiding us made a point of telling 
us

not to ever think about breaking into the armory, because any attempt to breach
security there would render those weapons useless. Any weapon removed from the
armory without proper authorization is automatically disabled by the weapon
itself sending a power surge to fry its control chip. That is why 
I 
carry this,” Jates flipped the rifle
over, opened a port with one finger, and extracted a copper-colored flat
square. He tossed it to go drifting away, pulled an identical unit from a
pocket, and inserted it in the rifle. “
This

fire control unit is active,” the lizard announced with a grin that stretched
his lips in an expression more terrifying than reassuring. Sighting on a broken
piece of equipment lazily floating near the far bulkhead, he fiddled with the
selector and squeezed the trigger. A maser beam blasted the target, sending hot
droplets of metal to splatter the bulkhead and making everyone in the
compartment duck and cover their faces. “The next time a Ruhar cadet tells you
how their species is so smart, remember this.”

Dave and Perkins exchanged a silent ‘oh 
shit
’ look. A Kristang held the only
active weapon aboard the ship. Was he now going to seize control of the 
Ruh Tostella
? Kill the humans and Ruhar,
or simply throw them in the brig, and try to signal a Kristang warship? If a Verd-Kris
warrior wanted to join the Kristang warrior caste, bringing them a Ruhar
warship full of cadet hostages might be a good way to prove his worth. Perkins
saw Dave tense to launch himself at Jates and her heart froze in fear for her
young sergeant-

“Here,” Jates flipped the rifle around and
handed it to Dave. “You should hold this.”

Dave was so shocked, he did not at first reach
out for the rifle, believing it had to be a trick. When his hands wrapped
around the rifle and Jates released it, Dave pulled it close to his chest,
pointed it between his feet, and safed it. “You sure about this?” Dave asked
before he could stop his stupid mouth.

“The cadets would never accept me as commander,
there is too much hate and distrust between our peoples,” Jates explained
sadly. “The Ruhar consider the Verd-Kris, like you humans, as pets,” he jerked
his head toward Bifft, “who are indulged too much by our masters. Colonel
Perkins, if we have any chance to survive this disaster, we need you to lead
us.” Jates gave her a proper US military salute.

Emily Perkins’ internal reaction was to resent
the pressure put on her. She wanted someone else to be responsible for a
change, dammit. If the Fates were determined to torment her, why couldn’t they
give her an easy challenge once in a while? She returned the salute. “Surgun
Jates, do you have any more of those magical control chips?”

“Only one more, and it was in part of the ship
that sustained significant battle damage.”

“So,” she pointed to the rifle Dave carried,
“that’s the only active weapon aboard the ship.”

“Yes.”

“That I know of,” Perkins tilted her head.

“We must trust each other,” Jates replied with
an unreadable expression.

The alien was right, she knew. “Sergeant Czajka,
you and Jates escort the mutineers to the brig.”

Dave made a show of flicking off the safety of
his rifle. “Ma’am, there are probably other cadets involved in the mutiny, what
about them?”

“Unless we know specifically who was involved,
they are all innocent until proven guilty. We need everyone we can get to
repair the ship, I would like to consider this, this
 incident
 closed for now. The Ruhar authorities can deal with the legal
matters when we contact the fleet.”

By his expression, Dave did not like that idea.
“Yes, Ma’am.” If anyone even looked at him funny, Dave intended to throw them
in the brig and ask questions later. No way was he going to take any shit from
punk hamster kids.

Perkins turned her attention to the Kristang,
or, she corrected herself, Verd-Kris. “Surgun Jates?”

“Yes, Colonel?”

“Make sure these cadets don’t know any tricks
about breaking out of the brig.”

That drew a smile from the Verd-Kris, an
expression that was not quite revolting. “Yes, Colonel.”

 

After Dave departed with Bifft and his crew,
Perkins floated over to Jinn’s workstation. “Do you have an initial assessment?”

“N-no,” the Ruhar girl stammered, her hands
shaking. She wasn’t ready for the crushing responsibility, she knew it, and she
also could not just walk away. The entire crew was counting on 
her
. “Colonel, even if the reactors can
be restarted, I don’t dare feed energy into the ship. There are too many power
conduits with open circuits, and other systems that might blow if unregulated
power is fed into them. We, we need to get the entire ship forward of Frame
Sixty Seven,” she pointed to the thick bulkhead to the aft, which protected
delicate biological systems from the radiation of the reactors and jump drive,
“isolated. I don’t have enough people to do that. Enough people who know how to
do that! I can’t be here, and also manage the work teams.”

“Understood. Garnor, take a deep breath,”
Perkins put a hand on the cadet’s shoulder. “You can do this?”

“How?” Jinn waved her fingers at the console in
front of her, densely cluttered with confusing data, all of which needed her
focused attention. “It is impossible!”

“Don’t tell me about impossible, cadet,” Perkins
kept her tone soft and reassuring. “My team destroyed a Kristang battlegroup,
using ancient maser cannons that no one knew even existed. Later, we were
trapped on an island with an enemy commando squad and no weapons, and we found
a way to kill every one of those murderous lizards.”

“Yes, Ma’am,” Jinn replied with a faint smile.
The fact that she could smile at all was a good sign.

“You keep working here, I’ll find a way to get
those work teams organized.”

“Respectfully, Colonel, you don’t know this
ship’s systems.”

“Correct. But I know someone who does.”

 

On the way to patching another leak in the hull,
Nert stopped by the brig. His helmet was off, attached to his belt with a
strap, but clearly he had been wearing the helmet for an extended period while
working hard, for the fur on his head was plastered down with dried sweat and
the helmet liner had created a crease across his forehead. “Hello, Miss
Shauna,” he greeted the human with weary good cheer. While Nert, Dave and Jesse
usually used nicknames for each other, the two soldiers had not thought up an
acceptable nickname for Shauna. Jesse’s attempt to call her ‘Nuke’, merely
because her actions had erased an entire island from the surface of Paradise,
had not gone well. “How are you?”

Before Shauna could answer, Bifft elbowed one of
his fellow mutineers to get attention while he insulted the young cadet. “Oh,
Nert, did you come here to make sure your pet isn’t lonely?”

“You be quiet, Bifft,” Nert jabbed a finger at
the senior cadet, his expression filled with anger and disgust. “The ship is in
crisis, we need everyone working on damage control, and you,” he shook a fist
while trying to think what to say. “You are useless as a knitted condom!”

“Nerty!” Shauna couldn’t help laughing. “Is that
something you learned from the Third Infantry?”

“No,” he looked puzzled. “I heard Cornpone
saying it to Ski. Did I not use that expression correctly? It is a very
colorful phrase.”

“It is very colorful, yes,” she covered her
mouth with a hand so the cadets in the brig would not see she could not stop
laughing. “It is also true,” she scowled at Bifft, and with that, the humor was
gone. “How are you?”

Nert pointed to the patch kit strapped to his
waist. “I fear there are more holes in the hull than we have patches to fix. My
team leader thinks we must do what we can by starting near the engineering
control center and working our way forward.”

“That is stupid!” Bifft protested. “You should
first conduct a survey of the ship, and 
then

prioritize critical sections. If we don’t secure the life support systems
before they sustain more damage, we will all die out here soon!”

“You had a chance to help, Bifft,” Nert waved a
hand at the disgraced senior cadet with a dismissive gesture, something that
would have astonished Nert mere hours ago. The attempted mutiny had made
Bifft’s status fall so far, Nert no longer cared what his former cadet leader
thought about anything. “Now, the best thing 
you
 can do to help is stop breathing, to conserve oxygen for people
working to fix the ship. Miss Shauna, I must go now, I will be back, when I can.”

“You don’t worry about me, Nerty, I’ll be fine,”
Shauna wanted to be doing something more valuable than babysitting cadets who
were securely locked behind bars, but she understood humans were pretty much just
in the way for the task of repairing the sophisticated alien starship. Still,
Irene and Derek were practicing to fly and jump the ship if main power could be
restored, while Jesse and Dave were part of a work crew patching holes in the
hull. Humans did not need to understand hyperspatial navigation to slap patches
on holes in the inner hull, and Shauna was itching to get away from the brig,
soon.

 

Shortly after Nert left, Perkins pulled herself
into the chamber that led to the ship’s brig. That compartment was larger than
she expected aboard a training cruiser, but then it was likely left over from
the 
Toaster
’s service as a line ship.
Bifft and his two friends were floating in the center of the compartment. They
were upside down from her normal perspective, Perkins thought the brats had
done that deliberately to upset their single guard. “Jarrett,” she nodded.

“Ma’am,” Shauna patted the heavy wrench sitting
in her lap. “Don’t you worry, these jokers aren’t going anywhere.”

“Colonel Perkins,” Bifft mispronounced her name
as Per-KINS because he knew that would annoy the human officer. “I have rights
as a prisoner,” he ran a finger over the dried blood on his face where Jates
had bashed him with the rifle, and waggled his broken fingers. “You must offer
proper medical attention to injured prisoners. I demand that you-”

“You 
demand

nothing, you punk-ass little shit,” Perkins was too tired to add the proper
vehemence to her tone. “You are not a prisoner, you are guilty of a mutiny. I
checked Ruhar Fleet regulations and they are 
very
 clear. Anyone attempting a mutiny when a ship is in combat
conditions, only has a right to piss in their pants before they get thrown out
an airlock. Your fleet, your people, are at war, 
cadet
. They don’t screw around, I admire that about your people.”

“You are an alien, you have no right to-”

“I am the commanding officer of this ship,”
Perkins waved her zPhone so Bifft could see the full set of command codes.

“You are not going to kill us,” Bifft was
regaining his arrogance. He reasoned if the human had the determination to
throw him out an airlock, she would have done that already before she lost her
nerve. “My family is powerful, you do not dare touch me.”

“Ma’am, please, give me two minutes with that
asshole,” Shauna thumped the wrench into the bulkhead behind her. “His face is beat
up already, no one will know.”

“Don’t waste the energy, Jarrett,” Perkins
frowned.

“Have you come here to gloat, Miss Perkins?”
Bifft asked in a taunting tone he used for his friends, but the fear in his
eyes revealed his true emotions.

“No, I’m here to put your furry asses to work,”
Perkins explained simply.

That remark was completely unexpected, Bifft
could not respond until one of his friends nudged him. He tapped his earpiece.
“I do not think that translated properly?”

“You heard me right. Work. If we’re going to
survive, we need to fix the ship, and I need all hands on deck for that. I
can’t have three able-bodied people wasting time in the brig just because one
of you is stupid.” She locked eyes with Bifft.

“We should put our trust in you?” Bifft asked in
a mocking tone.

“You should put your trust in Urmat Datha. 
He
 chose to put me in command.”

Seeing a chance for redemption and to regain his
personal status, Bifft folded his arms defiantly. “Why should we help?”

“First, because if you don’t, everyone aboard
this ship might die, including you three knuckleheads. Second, because no
matter how powerful your parents are, the only thing your Fleet Command hates
more than a mutiny, is a 
failed

mutiny. The rest of you,” she directed her gaze at Bifft’s companions, “might
be able to claim you were misled by your cadet leader. But not if you refuse to
assist in repairing the ship.” Perkins could see the comment had struck home by
the awkward movements of the other cadets, and by the guilty looks they gave to
their leader. The cadets may have followed Bifft when they thought they could
take the ship, but neither of them wanted to face punishment now that the
mutiny had failed. “Cadet Colhsoon, I need someone to prioritize assignments
and organize work parties.”

That surprised Bifft more than anything else
Perkins had said. “You want me to lead the repair effort?”

“No, I need you to direct and coordinate the
cadet teams that will be doing the work. Cadet Garnor has an engineering team
working on overall plans to get the reactors restarted, but there is a lot of
other work she needs done, and I can’t take people with an engineering
specialty away from their tasks. You are the cadet leader, I need you to 
lead
.”

Bifft knew the human was flattering him. At that
moment, he did not care. She was offering him a way out of the deeply
humiliating mess he had gotten himself into. Bifft had not been able to admit
it to his friends, but when the brig door had closed with a solid clanging
sound of doom, he had almost broken down and cried from fear and embarrassment.
He shuddered with relief, a tremble he could not hide from his friends. “Should
we shake hands, I believe that is the human custom?” Bifft held a hand through
the bars.

“Cadet,” Perkins tilted her head and pursed her
lips in displeasure. “I am not making a deal with you, I am 
giving you an order
 as your commanding
officer. You only have to obey.”

Bifft stiffened, and his friends tensed for his
reaction. What he did was unexpected. He pressed two fingers to his cheek in
the Ruhar form of salute. “Understood and agreed, Colonel.”

“Excellent. Surgun Jates,” as she spoke the Verd-Kris
came through the doorway, “will come with you to assist.”

Bifft blanched at seeing the Verd-Kris, and he
subconsciously wrapped his injured fingers with his other hand. “We have to
trust each other, but you send this, person,” he chose his words carefully, “to
spy on me!”

“I am not a spy, and I am not worried about you
taking over the ship,” Jates glared through the bars. “You have already proven
to be totally incompetent at that. We will see whether you are competent to do 
anything
 aboard this ship.”

Bifft knew he was not going to win the argument
about Jates following him around the ship. “If you are not watching me, what
will you be doing?”

“My task is, think of it as providing
motivation.”

“Motivation, how?” Bifft asked, his eyes
flicking between the menacing Kristang and his friends who were clearly going
to be no help at all.

Jates pointed at the senior cadet. “Ass,” then he
pointed at his feet, “meet boot. Any questions?”

Given a reprieve from death or at least a long
prison sentence, Bifft threw himself into his assigned task with feverish
energy. Perkins had to admit the cadet leader had excellent organizational
skills and a natural charisma that made people want to follow him, finding
herself forced to admire the job he was doing. He got Jinn’s list of tasks
prioritized not only by level of potential danger to the ship, but also took
into account which tasks could be combined, to minimize the time required and
risk to the teams working in hazardous conditions. Soon, the repair teams began
to fix things faster than they could break, and Jinn Garnor had time to think
beyond the immediate crisis. When Bifft, escorted by Jates, came to report
progress to Perkins, Jinn decided it was time to deliver the bad news. “We can
get one reactor restarted,” she told Perkins with a raised eyebrow, implying
she was not entirely sure of her facts. “The other reactor is too damaged to
attempt a restart.”

“All right, all right, that’s good, then,”
Perkins stifled a yawn. Damn she was tired, and there was no prospect of her
getting sleep anytime soon. “The ship can run on one reactor?”

“It can, but that is not the problem. The
containment shielding around the good reactor is damaged, we don’t have enough
replacement components, and we can’t take shielding from the other reactor,
because damage to the second reactor is even more extensive.”

“The reactor will leak radiation?”

“Worse, it will leak plasma. Once plasma gets
past containment, it will burn through the outer shielding, and then,” Jinn
made an exaggerated shrug. “We lose the reactor, all systems near the reactor,
and probably the ship.”

“Is there anything you can do to compensate?”

“Yes. We can run the reactor at very low power,
and periodically vent plasma to reduce the stress on the containment system.
Colonel, there is only so much we can do to keep the containment from failing.
My best guess is, once the reactor is restarted, we will only have ten days
before it must be shut down, permanently.”

“Ten days?” Bifft squeaked with dismay. “We
can’t go anywhere in ten days!”

“The reactor isn’t the only problem,” Jinn ran a
hand through her hair in a very human-like gesture, sweeping bangs out of her
eyes. “It isn’t even the most important problem. The battlegroup’s action was
not planned, so the fleet does not know where we were when the Bosphuraq
attacked. The fleet won’t know we are missing for another two weeks, and a
search could take months. Or more.”

“That assumes the fleet will conduct a search
and rescue operation,” Perkins mused, instantly regretting she had spoken
aloud.

“The fleet will search for us!” Bifft declared
indignantly. “My mother-”

“The Bosphuraq may have launched a large-scale
attack into Ruhar territory,” Perkins explained, “the fleet may not have the
resources for a search operation. Especially if they don’t know there are any
ships left to search for.”

“Oh,” Bifft stared at his feet, chastened. Even
his parents could not simply order a warship to search for their son, if the
fleet was hard-pressed responding to an incursion by the Bosphuraq.

“However we’re getting out of this, we need to
plan to do it on our own,” Perkins looked to Jinn. “What are our options?”

“That is the problem, Colonel. I do not see that
we have any options. We have enough charge in the capacitors for several jumps,
and at low power, the reactor could slowly recharge the capacitors for perhaps
another two jumps, before I have to shut down the reactor. You must understand,
this ship is not capable of traveling to a star system with a habitable world
from here. Even if all systems were operating perfectly, it is unlikely we
could perform a flight between star systems before some critical component wore
out. Our ships are not usually capable of interstellar flight, which is why we
rely on Jeraptha star carriers.”

“I did know that,” Perkins replied with a
measure of irritation. “We are not capable of jumping to anywhere with a
habitable world, or a data relay we could use to send a signal, or a fleet
refueling station, anything like that?” On the panel in front of her, she
scrolled through a star map of the area within two lightyears of what Captain Striebich
had said was their present position. It sure did look empty. A whole lot of
nothing. Two point two lightyears away was a brown dwarf star, without a symbol
indicating any species in the Rindhalu coalition had a facility there, not even
an automated monitoring station. “The fleet doesn’t know where we are, because
the battlegroup altered course when we found the debris from that civilian ship.
Is there a way to see,” she fiddled with the controls then gave up, “the
original flightpath plan of the star carrier, before it altered course?”

“Because that original flightpath is where the
fleet would be searching for us? Yes, it’s here,” Jinn reached over and
adjusted the controls, zooming out. “At closest approach, the planned
flightpath was,” she squinted at the display, “about sixteen lightyears from
here.”

“Hell, that’s no good,” Perkins said sourly, “no
way can we jump that far. Our jump drive isn’t capable of getting us anywhere
useful from here,” she did not consider that she might have just insulted the
Ruhar by disparaging their jump drive technology. Perkins wound a strand of
hair around one finger, a nervous habit that seemed to fascinate the Ruhar. She
pulled her hand away and bit down on a thumbnail while she thought. “We don’t,” she said softly, speaking to
herself, “we don’t know that star carrier was destroyed, do we?”

“We saw it blow up!” Bifft scoffed.

“No,” it was Jinn’s turn to look thoughtful. “We
saw it get 
hit
, just before we jumped
away. We didn’t see,” her voice trailed off as she accessed controls on her
workstation, recalling sensor data of the final seconds before the 
Ruh Tostella 
jumped away. The audience
watched anxiously as the Jeraptha ship got battered, then the image cut off as
their own ship jumped.

“Run that back,” Perkins ordered, then, “there’s
too much interference. Can you clean up the image?”

“There was a lot of energy saturating the
battlespace back then,” Jinn warned as she manipulated the sensor feed. “Our
ability to separate signal from noise is limited.”

“There,” Perkins jabbed a finger at the display
excitedly. “Pause it there, no, back, there. What am I seeing? That looks like
the star carrier took a direct hit amidships.”

Jinn examined the fuzzy data from several
different sensor feeds, running the images through filters then giving up as
the data could not be cleaned up any further. “You are right, a missile struck
the star carrier’s spine just before we jumped.”

“So,” Perkins noted with a tiny flare of hope,
“we don’t 
know
 that ship was
destroyed.”

“That is crazy,” Bifft threw up his hands. “We
can’t rely on wishful thinking!”

Perkins ignored the cadet leader. “What is
this?” She asked about a glow in the image, off to the top.

“It is,” Jinn pulled back. “Mmm, it appears the
destroyer 
City of Sandeppe 
jumped
away less than a second before we did. Ohhhh,” she groaned with dismay. “No. It
attempted to jump away. Look at how the event horizon of their jump wormhole is
distorted. They were too far inside the damping field.” She looked up to meet
Perkins’ eyes. “It is unlikely the

Sandeppe
 survived the jump attempt.”

“I’m sorry to hear that,” Perkins knew her words
sounded flat, when she was talking about the deaths of almost a hundred Ruhar.
What could she say? The entire battlegroup was probably dead also, along with
the crew of their Jeraptha mothership.

“That, could actually be good for us,” Jinn’s
comment surprised Perkins, and the Ruhar cadet saw that so she explained. “The
collapse of the 
Sandeppe
’s event
horizon could have created a local spatial distortion, preventing the Bosphuraq
ship from jumping to pursue us.”

“But that battlecruiser could have jumped
eventually?” Perkins guessed.

“Yes,” Jinn scrunched up her face to recall the
intricacies of jump physics, which was not specifically part of her studies.
“The Bospuraq would have to fly a considerable distance through normal space,
to get clear of the distortion, before they could jump.”

“Like, how far? Could that battlecruiser still
be there?”

“No, no, they would not need to fly 
that
 far before jumping. That ship’s
rate of acceleration is impressive,” Jinn knew that because she had taken a
minute to study up about their opponent after the battle.

“Outstanding,” Perkins muttered to herself.
“Then there is no reason to think the Bospuraq are still hanging around the
battlespace.”

Bifft did not like the sound of that, his ears
stood up in alarm. “You cannot be suggesting we jump back into the area?”

“Cadet Colhsoon, I am not 
suggesting
 anything. I am considering our options and I might 
order
 a jump back into the battlespace.”
Her tone made it clear she was not seeking input from a former and failed
mutineer.

Jinn nodded, ignoring Bifft. A day before, she
would never have done that. “You are hoping some of our ships might have
survived?”

Perkins nodded curtly. “It’s our best bet that I
can see. The Bosphuraq know our ships can’t travel between stars,” she missed
the fact that she had referred to Ruhar warships as ‘our’ rather than ‘your’.
“Once they snapped the beetle star carrier in half, they might have figured
their job was done and moved on. Yes, Cadet Colhsoon, that is wishful
thinking,” she admitted with a defiant tone. “Sometimes, wishful thinking is
all you’ve got to go on out here. Staying here and doing nothing is only
wishing for a slow death.”

Bifft looked to Jinn for help but she looked
away. “Colonel Perkins,” he pronounced her name correctly. “If the Bosphuraq
have not left the area, it will be certain death for us to jump back in there.”

“Agreed. My judgment is the Bosphuraq had no
tactical reason to remain in the area. For whatever purpose they stalked and
hit our battlegroup, their mission was a complete success once they disabled
that star carrier.” She had decided their best option for survival was to jump
back to the only place in range where they might find help. Now the question
was, 
could
 they do that?

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER FOURTEEN
“Can we do it?” Perkins asked, trying to decide
where to float in the cramped confines of the auxiliary control center.

“Can we jump? Sure,” Derek was quick to answer.
“Problem is, we have no idea how to program a jump. Colonel, I mean, 
no
 idea. None of the training materials
available to us even mention the subject.”

“There’s no handy-dandy ‘jump back’ feature,
like call-back on a phone?” Perkins joked, though hoping that might be true.

“Even if there was, Ma’am, I think the jump we
did under the damping effect was so sloppy, the system wouldn’t know where to
go back 
to
. We need to get some smart
cadets up here to help us program the jump computer.”

“Ok, but the drive 
can
 do that jump? Garnor tells me there is plenty of power left in
the capacitors.”

“There should be more than enough, Ma’am,” Irene
agreed. “We jumped out of a partial damping field, that takes a lot of extra
power. Jumping back should use a lot less juice. Unless the drive coils got
degraded from our jump, I’ll have to ask the engineering team about that.”

“Do it,” Perkins ordered. “I’ll find some cadets
who have at least a basic knowledge of jump physics,” she added hopefully.
Faster than light travel was critical to the Ruhar fleet and the whole war
effort. Jump theory and navigation had to be an important topic at their
training schools.

Jump theory and navigation was an important
topic at Ruhar training schools. Unfortunately, no cadet aboard the 
Ruh Tostella
 had enough experience to
actually program a live jump. Even the senior cadets had mostly learned jump
physics and theory, not practical application.

Fortunately, there was one person aboard the
ship who had actual hands-on training in jump navigation, though even she had
only worked with a simulator. Ser-Kotreh Tutula volunteered when she heard
Perkins needed someone to assist.

“Thank you, but, no, you don’t understand,”
Irene let exasperation get the better of her. “We don’t need you to 
assist
, we need you to 
do
 it, all of it. The two of us have
absolutely no idea how any of this stuff,” she waved her hands at the confusing
jump controls on the display, “works. 
No

idea.”

“That is unfortunate,” Tutula frowned in a very
human-like expression that was much better than a smile from her species. “I
will require qualified senior cadets to assist me with the calculations, the
math is complicated and verifying the calculations is a rigorous process.”

“Thank you. If you need anything from us, let us
know, but,” Irene scowled. She hated feeling useless and helpless to control
her fate. “Otherwise, we will stay out of your way.”

“As we are under a time constraint, it would be
best if you were not involved. I might have time to explain the process later,
but-”

“Yeah, we get it,” Derek rubbed a hand along
Irene’s arm to soothe her bruised ego. “Until we learn the basic theory,
watching the process won’t do us any good. Tutula, are the cadets going to be
Ok with a Verd-Kris programming one of their starships to jump?”

“No doubt some of them will not be pleased,”
Tutula’s expression was unreadably blank. “Those who refuse to participate will
be noted, and I expect Fleet Command to reprimand them appropriately. If not,
 I
 will.”

 

Bifft came back to confer with Jinn Garnor, this
time without being escorted by Surgun Jates, who was busy ‘motivating’ a team
of cadets working to patch a leaky fuel tank.

Jinn listened to Bifft’s whispered words, then “You
are suggesting I sabotage our jump drive?” Jinn asked, incredulous.

“Shhhh,” Bifft’s head snapped around, but no one
had heard her words in the noisy compartment. “No, only the drive control
circuit,” Bifft explained, getting his natural cockiness back. “We have to stop
the alien from jumping us back to the battlespace, it’s insanity. It is
suicide,” he reached for her shoulder for emphasis but she pushed herself away.

“It might be risky,” Jinn admitted. She was not
entirely sure the jump drive coils would not explode when energized. “What do 
you
 suggest we do?”

“We stay here, and wait for rescue. Without
using power for jumps and propulsion, the reactor can-”

“The reactor won’t last, I told you that.”

“It is amazing you got it restarted at all,”
Bifft flashed a grin that used to be considered charming, but now he feared
most cadets saw through his attempt to flatter and manipulate them. Jinn only
glared at him and folded her arms, so he hurried to continue. “Er, yes. While
the reactor is working, we use it to charge up every powercell we have, so when
the reactor has to be shut down, we can stretch out life support.”

“Stretch it out how long? And when that runs
out, we get into dropships, and then we survive in spacesuits? You weren’t 
listening
,” her tone implied that was a
common problem with Bifft Colhsoon. “The fleet has no idea where we are. 
No
 idea. They don’t even know we are
missing yet!”

“Then waiting in one place is as good as any
other, and we should stay right here rather than risking a jump.”

“Wrong,” Jinn brushed her bangs out of her eyes.
“The battlespace was flooded with high-energy particles. If any place in the
area will attract the attention of ships searching for us, it is there,
 not
 here.”

Bifft kicked himself for not thinking of that
fact. And he was stubborn enough not to admit when he was wrong. “You know what
else was in the battlespace? A Bosphuraq warship! It is too risky for us to
jump back in there. Jinn, all you need to do is-“

“No! No, I won’t do it. And you are not doing it
either. You leave my drive circuits alone!” Anger flared in her eyes.

“You will obey this alien even though you know
her plan is insane?”

“I am obeying because it is my duty, and because
I agree with her. We can’t stay here while our reactor shuts down, then life
support fails. There is nowhere within this ship’s jump radius that will allow
us to survive. Our best chance is if one of our ships is still in the area of
the battle.”

“Now you are indulging yourself in wishful
thinking!” Bifft turned away in disgust. How could he have once wanted such a
weak woman?

“I wish to live, and you have not offered a
better option. Now, get out of my control center,” she waved him away, “I have
work to do.”

 

Irene held up a hand to get Perkins’ attention.
“All stations report ready for jump, Colonel.”

“As ready as we’re going to be, you mean?”

“Uh, yes. Ma’am, there isn’t anything more we
can check that hasn’t been checked at least three times already. The unknowns
are going to remain that way, until we load power into the jump coils.”

That would have to be good enough, whether
Perkins liked it or not. For the record, she did not like it. “Remind me, how
long after we jump until the sensors are able to give us useful data?”

“Seven seconds for full reset, maybe eighteen
seconds to restore full capability, Ma’am.” Irene cautioned the ship’s current
commander, “Problem is, the 
Toaster
’s
sensor suite got beat up pretty badly in the fight, we lost an entire array on
the portside, and there are big gaps in the dorsal arrays.”

“Anything that would prevent the sensors from
picking up a return echo from a Yankee search?”

“No, those active pulses are so powerful I could
detect a ship with my suit sensors, if I were standing outside.”

“That won’t be necessary, Striebich.” The cadets
had been appalled when they heard Perkin’s plan to scan the battlespace with
active sensor pulses immediately after jumping in, because Fleet doctrine was
that stealth was life and no one compromised stealth, especially not in a
potential combat situation. Perkins’ reasoning was the intense gamma ray burst
of their inbound jump would already illuminate their position to any ship in
the area, and the 
Toaster
’s stealth
field was, well, basically toast at that point. If a stealthed Bosphuraq ship
was lingering around the battlespace, Perkins would rather detect the enemy
presence with a sensor echo, than with maser bolts cutting into the 
Ruh Tostella
. “We will be ready to jump
the hell out of there if we detect unfriendlies?”

“Yes,” Derek called up the jump option list on
his console. “Short jump, then long. The quicker we have to initiate a jump,
the less accurate it will be,” he warned. Short-long was Ruhar Fleet standard
procedure for an escape jump. Conduct a short jump to get clear of the
immediate battlespace, and drop off quantum resonators just before the jump to
confuse enemy sensors about where the ship had jumped to. Then conduct a longer
jump, with the hope that by the time the enemy determined where the far end of
the short jump was, the escaping ship would be long gone. Derek agreed with the
thinking behind the procedure, except the 
Ruh
Tostella
 was not equipped with quantum resonators, and they would need to
pause for an estimated forty minutes after the short jump, to calculate their
long jump. If a Bosphuraq ship were waiting for them, Derek thought the 
Toaster
 was as good as dead already.

“Then there’s no point waiting. Sound the alarm
for jump prep and start feeding power into the coils.” Perkins closed her eyes
briefly and said a silent prayer. 
Please,
God, don’t let me screw this up, people are depending on me
.

 

The 
Ruh
Tostella
 jumped with fair accuracy, considering that the jump had been
programmed partly by a group of third-year cadets. According to the navigation
system, they missed the target point by only fourteen thousand miles. In space warfare,
that was practically on top of their target. Perkins took that as a very good
omen. “Anything?” Perkins asked with one eye on the clock and one on the sensor
display. Ten seconds had gone by, and the display was still blank.

Then the display lit up. All over.

“Multiple contacts!” Derek shouted louder than
needed. “Wait, wait,” he added to Irene, who had a finger poised on a button to
jump them away. “All contacts are solid, Colonel, we’re not picking up a return
with a fuzzy silhouette like we would if there were a stealthed ship out there.
There are a 
lot 
of contacts, though,”
he whistled. “Looks like a big debris field.”

“Striebich, keep your finger on that button,”
Perkins ordered, “but don’t activate a jump without my order. We’ve got a
limited number of jumps before this bucket fails us.”

As the sensor data became more clear, Perkins
became less tense and more fearful. Unless a Bosphuraq ship had a
super-effective stealth field or was so far away they hadn’t received a sensor
return yet, the battlespace appeared to be empty of threats. It was also empty
of potential rescuers. “Nothing? They’re 
all

gone?” Perkins leaned over Irene’s chair, her eyes flicking from one part of
the display to another. The area was cluttered with drifting debris, so much
that the 
Ruh Tostella
 twice had been
forced to maneuver away to avoid colliding with spinning pieces of dangerous
junk. Active sensors had thoroughly scanned the area out to half a million
miles, and there was not a single intact ship anywhere near them. In most
cases, the software’s ship identification system had difficulty determining
what type of ship most of the debris came from, because the parts were so small
and torn apart.

“It looks that way, Ma’am,” Derek concluded.
“I’m sorry.”

“We’re all sorry, Bonsu. Could a ship have
gotten away?”

“It’s possible,” Derek replied without a trace
of hope in his voice. “The system can only account for sixty three percent of
the mass that should be around us, but some of the ships, like that 
City of Sandeppe
, blew up hard. There
wouldn’t be enough left of those ships to track the mass, because a lot of the
mass got converted to energy.”

“Any sign of the 
Deal Me In
?”

“The forward section is gone, this is most of
it,” Derek indicated a loose cloud on the display. “But the aft section, hmmm,
that’s interesting. Looks like it’s mostly together.” He enhanced the image, to
show a short section of the star carrier’s spine, with a single empty docking
platform, attached to the aft engineering section. “Um, yeah, they took some
hits there also.” As Derek continued to zoom in on the broken star carrier,
they could see a reactor that had its plasma vented through a burned-through
hole in the exterior shielding. The entire area around that reactor was
scorched and melted. “That doesn’t look good,” Derek muttered.

“Shit,” Perkins shook her head. She might have
gotten all their hopes up for nothing. The 
Ruh
Tostella
 still could not jump far enough to get anywhere useful, and their
single functional reactor was steadily failing. All they might have
accomplished was slowly dying in that lonely part of interstellar space, rather
than their previous position in lonely interstellar space. “Secure from active
search,” she ordered. “It’s too dangerous to send dropships out there, with all
the debris drifting around.” The real problem was chunks of debris crashing
into each other, creating more debris and sending pieces careening in all
directions. “Launch a recon drone, I want a full scan of what’s left of the
star carrier. If you see another piece of debris out there large enough to
investigate, send another drone. We can’t afford to miss anything.”

 

They didn’t miss anything, because there wasn’t
anything to be missed. Other than the aft section of the 
Deal Me In
, the largest piece of debris was the size of a dropship.
The Bosphuraq battlecruiser had been brutally thorough in its destruction of
the Ruhar ships, so much so that Perkins wondered whether the Bosphuraq captain
had a personal grudge against those Ruhar. Space combat rarely left significant
parts of wounded ships intact, the kinetic energy of railguns and the explosive
power of ship-killer missile warheads could quickly tear unprotected ships
apart, while a single hit to a reactor or jump drive capacitors could cause a
ship to destroy itself. Still, Perkins had hoped to find 
something
 useful in the debris cloud, and she was straining to keep
the necessary confidence in front of her reluctant crew. The second recon drone
had flown around to examine several remnants of Ruhar ships and found nothing
useful, so Perkins had recalled that drone after it unfortunately displayed
images demonstrating that some of the debris drifting around were shattered
Ruhar bodies. She did not need the cadets seeing frozen, charred and bloated
bodies of their people.

Giving up on hoping to find a miracle in the
smashed remains of the Ruhar battlegroup, she concentrated on what remained of
the star carrier, knowing that section of the ship was extremely unlikely to
contain a living Jeraptha. She gave her cadet crew plenty of time to examine
the stricken star carrier, assigning two additional drones to the search, and
not asking Jinn for her opinion until six hours had passed. “What do you
think?” Perkins asked as she handed a squeeze bulb of hot klah to the senior
cadet. “Is anything there salvageable? Useful to us?”

“No,” Jinn needed the klah to keep herself
awake. “Their normal-space propulsion system is scrap, a third of it is simply
sheered away. Whatever hit there, it tore the power couplings loose. That ship
isn’t going to move on its own again.”

“I saw that. What about the reactors? One of
them looked fairly intact.”

“There is one reactor that vented its plasma and
shut down properly. Please! Before you ask, no, we can’t get anything useful
from that star carrier’s reactor. To restart our own reactor, I was able to
rely on instructions that walked us through every step in great detail, and as
you remember we still had to abort the restart sequence 
three
 
times
 because
something went wrong that the procedures didn’t anticipate. With a Jeraptha
reactor, we would be starting from absolute zero.”

“Cadet, I have every confidence-”

“You shouldn’t. It is impossible. Wait,” Jinn
held up a hand. “
Please
, Colonel.
That reactor vented its plasma, but it is damaged, there are cracks in the
exterior sheathing and the containment magnets inside have become detached from
their mounts. We can’t fix it. I do not think even the Jeraptha could repair
that reactor without a shipyard capable of heavy-duty work, It is impossible, 
impossible
,” she looked at Perkins from
one eye to another, seeking understanding as if that particular word could not
translate properly.

“Impossible, I understand. Cadet, you’ve done a
remarkable job. I can’t ask for more. I accept there is no potential for using
Jeraptha reactor to power our life support systems.”

“Thank you, Colonel Perkins,” Jinn shuddered
slightly with relief and fatigue.

“No reactor, then. What about-”

“Contact!” Derek called excitedly over Perkins’
zPhone. “We got something out there, Ma’am. Looks like a Jeraptha escape pod.”

“Escape pod!” Emily found her pilot’s excitement
to be infectious. “Just one? Are there survivors aboard?”

“Just the one,” Derek reported slowly as he
reviewed the data on his console, hoping for better news. “One intact, we found
others that are damaged, this is the first one generating power. It began
pinging a distress call a few seconds ago. Maybe it needed to get a certain
distance from the battlespace before it activated, or maybe it has a timer?”

“Or maybe it picked up our signals,” Perkins
suggested. “Survivors?”

“All we’re getting is a location ping, Colonel.
We’re too far away to see inside with our sensors. It could be empty, but it is
pinging and I don’t know if a Jeraptha pod would do that unless it was
occupied? I couldn’t find anything in the ship’s database about operating
procedures for Jeraptha gear.”

“Ah, dammit. Please tell me the debris field is
relatively clear between us and that pod.”

“Not a chance, Ma’am.”

“Damn it. All right, send a drone.”

 

The drone reported one living Jeraptha was
inside the escape pod, though it was in a state of semi-hibernation caused by
the pod’s mechanisms. “I don’t suppose the beetles equip their pods with the
capability to rendezvous with a rescue vessel?” Perkins asked hopefully.

“No, Ma’am,” Irene turned to look up at their
captain. “I worked with a cadet to research everything the ship’s database
knows about those pods, and they have a very limited ability to maneuver,
basically they can move to avoid collisions, but that pod out there has used up
all its fuel so it didn’t crash into the debris cloud. The casing has dents and
scratches from impacts already, I hope it isn’t damaged. We need to go out
there and bring it to us.”

“How did I know you were going to say that?”
Perkins crossed her arms as she floated behind the pilot couches. “I suppose
you are first in line to volunteer?”

“Well, Colonel,” Irene winked at Derek. They had
tossed a coin and Derek lost. “If you send two cadet pilots, it might look like
you were not willing to risk human lives.”

“Right, but if you go with a cadet, I am clearly
not playing favorites,” Perkins rolled her eyes. “Christ, Striebich, you’re
right about this one. Of course,” she mused with a hand rubbing her chin. “I 
could
 send Tutula with a Ruhar cadet, which
would make it an interspecies rescue operation.” Seeing the crestfallen look on
Irene’s face, she took pity on her pilot. “Relax, Striebich. You’ve sold me on
the idea. Take Tutula and a cadet pilot to be safe, go bring that beetle here
to us.”

 

The beetle was a young Machinist’s Mate named
Ernt Dahl, who was barely older than the Ruhar cadets, as he had been aboard
the 
Deal Me In
 as his first
assignment out of school. The translator told Perkins that Dahl’s rank of
‘Arlon’ was something like ‘junior ensign’ or ‘probationary ensign’, so he was
certainly not an experienced senior officer. He was overjoyed to be alive when
the pod automatically revived him, upon being brought into the pressurized environment
of the 
Ruh
 
Tostella
’s docking bay. Part of Perkins had been hoping the
Jeraptha would naturally take on the burden of command after awaking, but Ernt
was perfectly happy for Perkins to be in charge, and apparently saw nothing odd
about a human commanding a Ruhar ship.

Despite Ernt’s knowledge of technology far
beyond Ruhar capabilities, he was not much help with the battered 
Toaster
. After an assessment that had
his antennas drooping with despair, he agreed with Jinn that the ship’s one
functioning reactor would shut down when its containment system failed, and
there was nothing anyone could do about it with the equipment available. After
initially being stunned and thrilled to see part of his ship had survived, Ernt
was equally pessimistic about the condition of the 
Deal Me In
. The reactors were basically scrap, vented plasma had
eaten into the backup power systems, and the engines that flew the ship through
normal space were scrap. The only bright spot was the star carrier’s jump drive
system, for the coils and capacitors had come through the battle in fair
condition.

“The star carrier’s jump drive is intact?”
Perkins traced a finger along the schematic of the star carrier on the display
in front of her.

“Yes, remarkably so,” Ernt agreed, his antenna
bobbing up and down vigorously. “Unfortunately, that is of no use to us. The jump
drive control system was in the forward part of the ship, part of the
navigation computer. We do not have any system to control the action of the
jump coils.”

“Arlon Dahl,” she used the Jeraptha’s rank to
address him. “Is there any way for 
this

ship’s drive system to control a Jeraptha jump drive?”

Ernt’s antenna stood straight up in surprise and
he looked away, perhaps embarrassed for the primitive human who had asked such
a foolishly ignorant question.

“No,” Jinn also was dismayed by being asked such
a ridiculous question. “We don’t have an interface with the-”

“Yes,” Tutula interjected with confidence. “This
ship 
does
 have a capability to
interface with a Jeraptha jump drive.”

Ernt and Jinn just stared at Tutula, blinking
slowly. If she had suddenly grown another head, they might have been less
surprised.

“How do you know that?” Perkins asked, glancing
between Ernt, Jinn and Tutula.

“One of this ship’s former officers told me
about it. That is one advantage of being a member of an enemy species,” Tutula
twisted her lips in a horrible version of a smile. “The Ruhar are always very happy
to show me how superior they are. Your people,” he addressed the remark to Jinn,
“have of course been studying Jeraptha jump drive technology every chance they
get, particularly when your ships are attached to a star carrier. Each of your
ships is equipped with a working computer model that emulates an interface with
a Jeraptha jump drive. Whenever a star carrier jumps, your ships simulate
controlling the jump to test the accuracy of the model, and your fleet studies the
results to refine the model. The officer who revealed this to me bragged that
the emulator is now believed to be ninety six percent accurate. He wanted me to
know that the shortcomings of your jump drive technology are caused by hardware
deficiencies, not by a lack of theoretical understanding or inability to
program a drive controller. The Ruhar,” now she looked at Perkins, “know that
Kristang jump drives are shamefully inaccurate. That is a failure of the
warrior caste, not of 
my
 people. The
warrior caste pays too little attention to anything not directly related to
destructive power. 
My
 people,” she
switched back to glaring at Jinn, “would correct that error.”

“If we could interface our drive controller with
the Jeraptha system-” Jinn’s voice trailed off as she considered the
possibilities, looking to Ernt for a sane voice to squelch an idea that must be
mad. But the Jeraptha only looked at the display pensively, not noticing her.

“The 
Ruh
Tostella 
can attach to the hardpoint?” Perkins asked, pointing to the one
remaining docking platform that remained on the star carrier’s shortened spine.
“The star carrier jumps, and we jump with it?”

“We can attach manually, yes,” Jinn scratched
the back of her head, “I think so. Unless the clamps there are damaged.
Colonel, even if we can control a Jeraptha jump drive, we have no way to feed
power into their capacitors. Physically, there is no connection between our
reactor and the star carrier. I don’t see any way to create a connection.”

“It is not possible,” Ernt muttered, his claws
flitting across the controls, considering the question. “No,” he concluded.
“Colonel Perkins, my specialty is power generation. I am not an expert on
propulsion or jump drives or computers, but this 
is
 my area of expertise,” he declared with confidence beyond his
few years of training. “There is no equipment aboard either ship for creating a
stable power connection between this ship’s reactor and the star carrier’s
capacitors. The input frequency of the capacitors is,” he blinked, looking
around as if just then realizing he was in the presence of three alien
species. “Er, well, that is not a
specification I can discuss with you. I can assure you the capacitor charging
system is delicate and requires a specific-”

“Yes, fine, I accept we can’t recharge the 
Deal Me In
’s jump drive. What is the
charge in those capacitors now?” Perkins interrupted.

“We don’t know, I, er-I suppose we could
determine that with our sensors,” Jinn added, embarrassed. “It is,” she waited
while the damaged sensor suite responded. “Eighty one percent charge. That is
an estimate, you understand? The Jeraptha do not give us specifications for
their systems,” she added with a guilty glance at Ernt.

“Eighty two percent is the correct number, I do
not think I am giving away any secrets to tell you that,” Ernt confirmed with
one eye on a display. “Our last jump was only medium-distance, I think, so
there was plenty of charge available when we jumped in here.”

“Understood. How many, no, wait. Not how
 many
 jumps,” Perkins realized she had
been about to ask the wrong question. “How 
far

could the 
Deal Me In
 jump, with that
charge?”

“I do not know,” Ernt admitted without
embarrassment. “As I explained, I am a power technician. It is not possible, I
think, for a single jump to use up that entire charge. The greatest power drain
I remember from a single jump used up thirty four percent, and that was with
the ship burdened by carrying an entire heavy battlegroup of our own fleet. A
series of jumps to use up the capacitors,” he rubbed his antenna together as he
thought, in a gesture Perkins found fascinating and distracting. “Again, I do
not know. It is a complicated question with many variables.”

“Colonel, the charge in the capacitors is
certainly not sufficient for us to travel sixteen lightyears,” Jinn guessed.
“If you are hoping to get back on our original flightpath, in case the fleet is
searching for us.”

“What I want to know is, where 
could
 we go?”

The young Ruhar cadet was unhappy about being asked
questions she could not find the answer to in a shipboard database. “That,
also, is a guess-”

“Yes, yes, show me a radius of ten lightyears,
to be conservative.”

Jinn adjusted the display to show a sphere
around their present position.

To Perkins, it disappointingly still looked like
a whole lot of nothing inside that sphere. “That’s it? Are there any habitable
planets, data relays, refueling stations in there?”

“No,” Jinn shook her head. “Except for what we
suspect is a Thuranin sensor station, here. This was Thuranin territory until
recently. If there is a sensor station, it would be automated and of no use to
us.”

“Of course,” Perkins reprimanded herself for
allowing her frustrations to show. “Wait, what is this?” She pointed to a
glowing gold circle.

“That is an Elder wormhole. But it leads to
space controlled by the Kristang,” the Ruhar cadet warned.

“Space that 
was

controlled by the Kristang,” Tutula corrected. “Reports indicate they were
pulling back from that area, even before their latest civil war,” she noted
with disgust that her people would regularly kill each other over trivial
matters. “They had few assets in that region, and the Thuranin have abandoned
that entire part of the sector after their recent defeats by the Jeraptha,” she
added the last with a nod to Ernt, who lifted his head with pride.

“I’ll take your word about that,” Perkins
muttered. “Can we go through that wormhole? If we can, what is on the other
side, which we could reach? Show me a ten lightyear radius around the other end
of that wormhole.”

“It is 
possible

for us to go through the wormhole,” Jinn agreed unhappily. It took her a few
minutes to pull up a star chart showing the other side of that wormhole, as the
ship’s navigation system had to retrieve seldom-used data about enemy
territory. “Here,” she announced when the display filled in. “Two star systems
with habitable planets,” she pointed at two dots on opposite directions from
the wormhole. “The closest one is Kormat, the report says it has an estimated
population of three hundred, but that data is twenty years old. Kormat was a
logistics base that fell out of use, the Fleet thinks the Kristang pulled it
out of service.” She looked closer at the data. “Kormat may be on the margin of
being considered habitable, it is a very cold world,” she shuddered at seeing
some of the climate estimates. “The Kristang there lived in domes under the
ice, and the amount of oxygen in the atmosphere is low.”

“Too risky, too many ‘ifs’, too many lizards,”
Perkins concluded without thinking she had just said ‘lizards’ in front of
Tutula. “You said there is a second habitable planet?”

“Yes, in the other star system,” Jinn peered
closely at the data, and gasped. “Colonel, you know this place! You have been
there.”

“I 
have
?
What?”

“Your people designated this planet as ‘Camp
Alpha’?”

“Holy 
shit
.”
Emily Perkins did not have fond memories of that Godforsaken planet. “The
Goddamned lizards are still there?”

“Er,” Jinn searched through the data. “No. Fleet
Intelligence does not think the Kristang have maintained a presence there,
after your people shipped out. That planet was the property of the White Wind
clan, which suffered a severe loss of fortune, then recently was absorbed
during their civil war.”

“How sure is Fleet Intelligence about Camp Alpha
being abandoned?” As a career intel officer, Perkins would dearly love to see
the raw intel take on 
that
 subject.
How many times in her career had she published an assessment based on what she
thought was solid-gold intel, only to be proved wrong by the messy facts of
reality?

“I, the report, it,” Jinn scrolled down through
the data, then held up her hands. “It doesn’t list a confidence factor.”

“We are certainly not going to the first planet
you listed, Kormat or whatever it’s called. Camp Alpha? God
damn
. Never thought I’d ever be setting foot on that-” She paused.
She was describing a planet she might be asking the entire crew to land on and
live for an undetermined length of time. “That world. Oh, hell,” she forced a
laugh to lighten the mood. “It has oxygen and the temperature isn’t bad. No
dangerous native life. From what I remember, even when the Kristang were
running the place, their footprint on the surface didn’t cover much territory,”
her mind raced to remember how much land area the ExForce base on Camp Alpha
had covered. At its maximum, the Force that left Earth had consisted of about
120,000 people, with the USA and China contributing 35,000 combat troops each,
and the other three nations providing 15,000 each. Support and headquarters
units, and ‘observers’ from other nations had rounded out another five
thousand. One time only, she had been aloft in a ‘Buzzard’ aircraft on a
familiarization ride above Camp Alpha and gotten a birds-eye view of the
sprawling but temporary base, and the much smaller and walled-off Kristang
facility nearby. From eighty thousand feet up, the base had looked
unimpressive, and she recalled another officer telling her the entire base plus
wargame training area occupied less space than the state of Connecticut. Since
the planet was mostly land with only twenty percent of the surface covered by
oceans, that left a 
lot
 of room to
conceal a single shipful of cadets. “I’ll consider Camp Alpha our best option
until I hear otherwise. How long until we can jump?”

“Colonel? I have no idea. I’ve never seen this
emulator model,” she looked to Velt Tutula for help. “I did not know such
technology existed until today.” The way she tilted her head, the cadet did not
appear to fully buy into the idea of her people having ability to control a
Jeraptha jump drive.

“I have never seen it either,” Tutula admitted.
“Colonel, can you access it?”

Emily Perkins had absolutely no idea what she
could and could not do with her full set of command codes, she had never tested
the limits. “There is not an icon for ‘magical Jeraptha jump drive emulator’,”
she regretted her sarcastic tone. When she was asking others to do the
impossible, she should not be bitching about the pressure on her. The real
problem was she felt she could not ask for help with simple tasks because that
would display her profound ignorance. But she had no choice. “Something like
that would probably be highly classified. Anyone got any suggestions?”

“I do not think the existence of the emulator is
a deep secret,” Tutula noted. “The officer who told me said the Jeraptha know
about it.” she chuckled, a dry wheezing sound that caused a shiver of fear to
shoot up Perkins’ spine. “He said the Jeraptha were probably wagering over how
close the emulator is to their own system. Colonel, could it be as simple as
searching for ‘Jeraptha jump drive emulator’ in your command codes?”

“It’s worth a shot,” Perkins observed as she
typed the phrase into the handy search box. And, presto, there it was. “Huh,”
she looked up at Tutula. “Good guess. I’m allowing Engineering and the pilots
access to the emulator. What I would like to ask the Jeraptha fleet right now
is; what are the odds this will work?”

No one had an answer for her, but Ernt was
twitching his legs in an agitated fashion, and the tips of his antenna were
quivering. “What is wrong, Arlon Dahl?” Perkins asked with concern. “You think
this emulator will not work? Or would it make you uncomfortable for us to
attempt to control one of your jump drives?”

“No, Colonel. It is not surprising that a client
species would seek to understand our technology, and I will assist with the
necessary connections, for I wish to live,” he twisted his mouth parts in a
smile that somehow was less creepy than when a Kristang made the same gesture.
“It is just,” he sighed.

“What?”

“Wagering whether a Ruhar system could control
one of our drives is incredibly tempting action, and I cannot register a bet
out here in the wilderness!”

The alien crewman looked so anguished at being
unable to participate in the favorite activity of his species, Perkins almost
felt sorry for him. “Arlon Dahl, we have a broken ship staffed by inexperienced
cadets, attached to the even more broken ass-end of a star carrier. To get to a
habitable planet, we need to jump several times without the ship exploding,
transit a wormhole into enemy territory, and probably travel a long distance
through space to land on a planet that may or may not have a Kristang presence.
So, I will bet you that we will never set foot on Camp Alpha.”

“Mmmmm,” Ernt’s antenna moved in unison
excitedly. “What odds are you giving?”

Perkins had no idea so she made up a number that
sounded good. “Five to one.”

“Five to one? No points?”

“No points,” Perkins offered, guessing that
points were a bad thing.

“That is,” Ernt began with enthusiasm before his
expression became downcast. “That all sounds good, but I suspect you have
nothing to wager with, and also we have no way to properly register the wager.”

“Arlon Dahl,” Perkins grinned, “we will be
dropping off flight recorder buoys before we jump, we can include details of
the wager in the buoy databank. And, think about this; the only way we can
reach Camp Alpha is by getting this emulator software to work properly. I
believe the Ruhar fleet would be 
more

than happy to cover my side of the wager to learn their software is
functional.”

“Oh!” Ernt brightened, his mouthparts moving
rapidly. “In that case, I want seven to one.”

“Deal,” Perkins held out a hand and Ernt held
out a leathery claw, and they shook. It took another ten minutes of negotiating
back and forth to finalize the wager, with Perkins arguing only because she
felt Ernt expected her to.

“Excellent, excellent,” the very happy Jeraptha
declared. “Now, show me this emulator system. I am not a jump drive specialist
or navigator, but I do know about the power input requirements. It may be
necessary for me to tweak the emulator settings so the drive does not explode.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER FIFTEEN
Perkins knocked on the frame of the hatch
leading to the auxiliary helm, interrupting her two pilots who were engaged in
a heated but quiet discussion about something. “Striebich? Bonsu? Everything
squared away with you?”

“Yes Ma’am,” Irene lowered her voice with a
glance toward the open hatch. The hatch had been jammed and needed to be cut
away so Irene and Derek could get out of the auxiliary control center, now the
hatch was permanently open and anyone lurking in the passageway could hear them
talking. Derek understood why his fellow pilot was being so careful, and he
unstrapped from his couch and floated over to the hatch. Sticking his head into
the passageway, he gave her a thumbs up. Any listening or recording devices the
passageway once contained would have been destroyed in the battle that had bent
the heavy hatch. The aux helm had a flight recorder that stored all instrument,
visual and sound data, but Derek had learned how to temporarily disable that
system and he saw Irene had selected the ‘Pause’ mode. “Colonel, it looks like
if this emulator system works as advertised, we actually do have a decent shot
at getting the ship to Camp Alpha, we think. It’s risky, but our best shot.”
Perkins, nodded so Irene continued. “Before you arrived, Derek and I were
discussing that we now have a star carrier. Is there any possibility we can get
to Earth from here?”

Perkins groaned inwardly. She had enough
complications to deal with. “Striebich, you’re the pilot, you tell me if we can
get there. I thought the wormhole leading to Earth is shut down, dormant or
something.”

“That’s what the hamsters told us, yeah,” Irene
lowered her eyelids in suspicion. “I found Earth on the star chart, here,” she
tapped the navigation display in front of her couch, letting her finger rest
longingly on the symbol for humanity’s home world. Then she tapped the symbol
for Camp Alpha. “The trip would require going through multiple wormholes, but
there may be a possibility we could get there. We won’t know, until we jump the
first time and we see how much that drains the star carrier’s capacitors.”

Perkins looked without any enthusiasm at the
complicated proposed course that would take their busted half-ship deep into
enemy territory. “Does that star chart show the wormhole leading to Earth is
active?”

“No,” Irene highlighted the symbol for that
now-dormant Elder wormhole. “Not according to the chart. But, you have a full
set of command codes. I was thinking, what if that wormhole is 
not
 really shut down? The Ruhar did tell
us they have no idea why that one wormhole shut down all by itself. That
doesn’t sound kosher to me.”

“It never seemed right to me either, but we
don’t know anything about how the Elder wormhole network functions,” Perkins
cautioned her pilot. “You’re asking if my command codes reveal a different star
chart, one showing that wormhole is still active?”

Irene nodded silently with an anxious glance to
the hatch and Derek motioned her to continue. “Something like that, Colonel.”

Biting her lip and clicking through the screens
on her zPhone, Perkins found the mode to transfer the phone’s screen to the
display in front of Irene. “Navigation data is, hmmm, somewhere, here!” Perkins
allowed herself a smile of satisfaction at finding what she wanted on the alien
device. Ruhar systems were not as intuitive as they could be, or maybe they
just weren’t intuitive to humans. “Doesn’t look any different,” she frowned
with disappointment.

“It is a little different,” Derek noted from the
hatchway. “That group of symbols in the lower left corner weren’t there
before.”

“Huh, you’re right,” Irene zoomed in that
section of the display. “Looks like our hamster friends have been holding out
on us. This shows star systems recently surrendered by the Kristang, where the
Ruhar fleet has conducted stealth surveys.”

“Does that help us?” Perkins asked.

“No. We couldn’t risk flying to any of those
systems, and we don’t have the range anyway,” Irene declared. “Going back to
the question, the answer is no, dammit. Your star chart also shows that
wormhole to Earth is shut down.”

“If I put my intel officer hat on for a minute,”
Perkins mused, “I’d guess if anyone was lying to us about that wormhole being
shut down, it’s the lizards. The Kristang told us that wormhole was shut down,
before the Ruhar fleet took Paradise back. I can’t see the hamsters have any
reason to lie to us about it, but the lizards did. What I don’t see in this
chart is the data source, like, do the Ruhar 
know
 that wormhole is shut down, or are they only taking the
Kristang’s word about it?”

“That’s a good question, but it’s academic right
now, Ma’am,” Derek kept his own voice soft, continuing to scan the passageway.
“Unless we, meaning our beetle friend, find a way to recharge the Jeraptha jump
capacitors from this ship’s reactor, we will run out of power long before we
reached that wormhole. Irene, look, I would love to fly back to Earth,” his
tone indicated the subject had been argued extensively by the two pilots. “We
need to concentrate on surviving first. Let’s not get distracted, Ok?”

“Striebich, good initiative on asking that
question,” Perkins patted the pilot’s shoulder as she wiped the classified
navigation data from the screen. “If we see an opportunity to-”

“Cadets coming,” Derek whispered from the
hatchway, and the conversation ended abruptly.

“Very well,” Perkins turned to leave. “Ping me
as soon as you are confident about the jump solution.”

“About that, Colonel,” Irene raised a finger. “
We
 aren’t doing anything to get the jump
programmed, that’s the cadets and, mostly, Tutula. Without her, we’d be sitting
dead in space. When we’re ready, I’d like to offer her my seat.”

“You don’t want to be the first human to make a
star carrier jump?” Perkins was surprised by that.

“I would only be pressing a button,” Irene
explained. “Tutula has been busting her ass, she deserves a chance to make the
jump.”

“Plus,” Derek added without a wink or grin, “if
the drive goes ‘kaboom’ it will be all her fault.”

“Well, there is that,” Perkins also did not see
anything humorous in the situation. “About that, make sure we include the jump
calculations in the drone we’ll drop off before we activate the drive. If their
fancy emulator software doesn’t work, the Ruhar need to know about it. All
right, Striebich, I’ll inform our Verd-Kris friend about your offer. I want you
looking over her shoulder the whole time. Someday, we may need to do this on
our own.”

 

The 
Deal
Me In
 jumped. The ship did not explode. Pieces of it did not go flying off
in every direction, and the 
Ruh Tostella

stayed rigidly clamped to the docking platform. “Status?” Perkins asked
anxiously, from her awkward position strapped in next to Irene behind the two
pilot couches. Unlike their jump in to find the star carrier, when the displays
had gone from empty space to space filled with broken ships, this time there
was nothing on the display to tell her where they had gone to, where they were
now.

“Sensors are working on it, Ma’am,” Derek
reported with a look at Tutula to let the alien know that Perkins was not blaming
her for the lack of data.

“Captain Bonsu is correct,” Tutula agreed. “Our
sensors were blinded by spatial distortion of the jump field. We need seven
data points to determine our position in space.”

“The jump drive was not significantly damaged by
the jump,” Ernt reported happily. “The energy used was within three percent of
my estimate! The drive should be capable of performing another jump without
trouble,” the Jeraptha shook his head in amazement.

Perkins waited impatiently while the two pilots
worked to collect navigation data and Irene watched the process. Finally, Derek
raised a hand. “Got it. The good news is we jumped pretty far. The bad news is
we are forty one million miles off target.”

“Forty one 
million
?”
Perkins gasped. “How the hell-”

“The calculations were accurate,” Tutula stated
in a tone that invited no argument. “The slight battle damage to the banks of
Jeraptha jump drive coils could not entirely account for such a large margin of
error. The Ruhar emulator program must be faulty. Colonel Perkins,” Tutula
unstrapped from her couch and turned to address the human commander. “We should
have enough data from this jump to further refine the emulator system.”

“I sure as hell hope so,” Perkins kept her
temper in check. “Because if we’re going through a wormhole, our jump
capability needs to be dead on accurate.”

 

The next jump, twenty nine hours later, after
feverish work recoding the emulator program, delivered much more favorable
results. Despite the jump coils not working together properly and them having
no way to fix that problem, the second jump came within two hundred and seven
thousand miles of the target. Since the second jump was much longer, Perkins,
the pilots and the cadets involved in programming the jump considered their
accuracy a smashing success. Perkins waved her arms to suppress premature
celebration. “Are we in position, with the right timing, to go through the
wormhole?”

“Yes,” Irene replied with confidence, pumping a
fist that only Derek could see so they could share a private celebration. “The
wormhole will not emerge in this space for another three days and,” she checked
her display, “seventeen hours. That is plenty of time to maneuver the 
Deal
 
Me
In 
near the event horizon. We have to give the wormhole plenty of room
anyway, they emerge in a slightly different location each time.”

“Since none of us have ever taken a ship through
an Elder wormhole, and probably no one has 
ever

moved a star carrier by a ship on a hardpoint providing the thrust, can we do
this?”

“Oh, yes, Colonel Perkins,” Nert spoke up
happily, a broad grin exposing his incisors. “I have observed the process many
times. There is no trick to it, we just locate the event horizon and,” he made
a ring of the index finger and thumb on one hand and vigorously demonstrated
plunging his other index finger in and out of the ring, “we go in. It is 
easy
! Oooooh, so easy.”

Emily Perkins had to cover her face with a hand
to not burst out laughing. The goofily innocent grin on Nert’s face as he made
the unintentionally rude gesture was funny, but seeing Irene’s face growing
beet red as Nert enthusiastically kept going almost made Perkins lose her
composure.

“Ok, Nert,” Derek reached out to restrain one of
Nert’s arms. “The ship goes in the hole, we get the idea. Nert is telling the
truth, Colonel. Transition through a wormhole is automatic, all the ship needs
to do is line up the approach and make sure we don’t touch the edge of the
event horizon ring.”

“What happens if we do touch the ring?”

“Then, part of the ship goes through, and the
other part,” Derek ran a hand through the air in a cutting motion, “doesn’t.
Don’t worry, Ma’am, our flight training did simulate a wormhole transition.”

Perkins cocked her head. “How extensive was this
training?” Her pilots had only been in their starship pilot training for three
days before the Bosphuraq jumped in and spoiled the party.

Derek looked to Irene and they both shrugged.
“Two, three hours?” Seeing Perkins eyebrows raised in alarm, Derek added to
reassure her “Our instructor said there wasn’t any point to running that sim
much longer, because the wormhole transition maneuver is so simple. Jumping
into position close to an Elder wormhole is the tricky part, the rest is just
normal-space navigation. The three of us agreed Tutula will handle the
transition through the wormhole, with Irene acting as copilot and me calling
out navigation waypoints.”

“Except in this case, the 
Toaster
 is carrying half a star carrier on its back,” Perkins
pinched the bridge of her nose. Irene had noted that Emily Perkins had the
honor of being the first human ever to command a starship. What the pilot had not
said was that Perkins also had the crushing 
responsibility

of being the first human ever to command a starship. If she screwed up or
missed something important, she could get the entire crew killed. Even if at
least one cadet survived the disaster, Perkins knew her actions and decisions
would be scrutinized under a microscope by a species who overall, did not like
the idea of former enemies serving aboard their warships.

“Yes, Ma’am,” Derek agreed, not mentioning that
the 
Toaster
 was technically attached
by its belly rather than its back. “We’ve practiced maneuvering the combined
ships and we know the flight characteristics of this clumsy beast. Our flight
plan,” he called up that data on his display, “has us approaching the event
horizon at an angle, with the ship’s thrust pushing us on a curve into the
wormhole. If the engines fail, we will shoot safely past the event horizon and
have to try again at another emergence point, but we won’t crash into it,” he
announced with confidence.

 

“You’re telling me that jumping a thousand
lightyears through an ancient rip in spacetime is the 
safest 
part of this journey?”

Irene answered for Derek. “I know it seems
crazy, Ma’am, but there’s nothing 
we

can do to screw up that wormhole. Everything else we do out here has multiple
potentials for error.”

Perkins shook her head slowly, knowing she
needed to trust the judgment of her pilots. And knowing she had to trust an
Elder device that no one in the galaxy fully understood. “Let’s hope we don’t
get a visit from the screw-up fairy. All right, release the ship from jump
conditions and secure for normal-space maneuvering.”

 

The transition through the wormhole was as
smooth and easy as her pilots said it would be, although she noticed Irene’s knuckles
turning white from tension, as the ship lined up for the approach and flashed
through from one part of the galaxy to another. They kept a careful eye on the
charge level of the jump drive capacitors, which were getting drained rapidly.
By the time they were ready for a jump into the Camp Alpha star system, it was
clear that jump would be the Jeraptha starship’s last action. “Ma’am,” Irene
answered after a team spent two hours of checking and rechecking every part of
the jump drive system. “We can jump into the system with a comfortable safety
margin,” she didn’t mention that ‘comfortable’ meant less than seven percent.
“But that will be it. After the jump, the capacitors won’t have the energy to
get the coils over the threshold for a jump. We’ll be stuck in that star
system, and the 
Deal Me
 
In
’s normal space propulsion system is
offline. If we’re flying to Camp Alpha, we’ll do it in the 
Ruh
 
Tostella
,” she used
the ship’s formal name because her audience included many cadets.

“Understood. We can do it?”

“Yes, confidence is high,” Irene ignored the
grimaces from some of the engineering cadets. “We need to,” she pulled up their
planned course on the display, “jump in here, on the near side of the second
planet. That will mask our gamma ray burst from being detected on Camp Alpha.
It will take thirteen days to fly to Camp Alpha, but we can’t get the 
Toast
- the 
Ruh Tostella
 into orbit there, the reactor will shut down before we
get there. The final leg of the flight needs to be in dropships.”

Perkins had assumed that would be their best
option. The review continued for another hour, partly because there was a large
group of people involved in the process of verifying all the systems involved
and they all wanted to weigh in on the decision, so Perkins politely endured
the endless rehashing of issues. She also listened because she wanted them all
to buy into the plan to set down on Camp Alpha, and take shelter there until
rescue hopefully arrived. It wasn’t a great plan, and there were a lot of
unhappy cadets. But no one had a better idea that was realistic, and even Bifft
grudgingly admitted the ship’s failing condition did not offer an option of
remaining aboard and hoping for the best.

 

The final jump of the 
Deal Me In
 was successful, in that the ship did not explode, they
emerged less than one hundred eighty thousand miles from their target location,
and they were not immediately ambushed by enemy starships. Because the jump was
draining the last bit of power from the capacitors and the power flow was
unsteady, the jump was rough enough to make the 
Toaster
’s one reactor shut down.

“Let me guess,” Perkins tried to keep her own
expression neutral as she saw the anguish displayed by Jinn. “The reactor can’t
be fixed?”

“No,” relief flashed across Jinn’s face. Relief
she did not have to argue with their human commander, and, she had to admit to
herself, relief that she was no longer responsible for keeping a dangerous
reactor limping along.

“Well, it got us here, I suppose we can be
grateful for that,” Perkins said sourly. “I didn’t mean that,” she quickly
added. “Your ship designers have created remarkable machines, and you and your
team,” she waved an arm to encompass the exhausted group of engineering cadets,
“deserve congratulations for what you have achieved. What you achieved on a 
real
 ship, in a 
real
 crisis. When you get back to the academy, classroom exercises
will seem a bit dull, won’t they?” That drew weary smiles from most of the
cadets. “We’ll need to fly the rest of the way in dropships. It will be a long
flight in tight quarters, but-”

“About that, Ma’am?” Irene waved for attention.
“We have a bit of a problem.”

“A bit?”

“Colonel,” Derek tapped the display in front of
him. “Lady Karma has been so nice, getting us here and all, I think she wants
payback now. There’s a group of Kristang on Camp Alpha.”

“God-” Perkins thought better of taking the
Lord’s name in vain right then. “How many?”

“It is difficult to say exactly,” Tutula spoke.
“The signal is faint, we are picking up short-range surface-to-surface
transmissions from a single site that is almost around the curve of the planet,
they do not appear to have an active communications satellite. One of the
transmissions used a Kristang word that means ‘eight’,” she wiggled the four
fingers on one hand. “The speaker complained there are too few of them left,
more than eight but less than sixteen.”

“You get anything else from that transmission?”

“It was one soldier complaining to another about
the poor quality of the food, and that they do not expect a ship to return for
many months, so they are stuck on the surface. Colonel, I believe they occupy a
single, small site that is some type of research facility.”

Great, Perkins thought bitterly. Karma had
indeed been kind to them, until that moment. “Tutula, you keep listening, I
want Jates to listen with you so we’re not relying on translations that might
not be entirely accurate. Cadet Colhsoon,” she turned to find the senior cadet,
who was floating near the rear of the compartment, looking angry. “Get people
loaded into dropships while we select a flightpath and landing site. We will
come in over the opposite side of the planet from that Kristang base, and keep
our presence concealed.”

 

“I’m telling you, the human is going to get us
all killed,” Bifft whispered from the copilot seat of the dropship. He didn’t
know why he was whispering, the only occupants of the ship were Ruhar cadets.

“She had no way to know,” Jinn replied as she
ran a diagnostic check on the ship’s systems from a console at the cockpit’s
rear bulkhead, making sure the airspace craft was ready for atmospheric entry
and flight. She had to rely on painstakingly referring to a checklist on the
console, because she had no experience with that model of dropship. It was a
humbling task and if she missed something critical or made a mistake, everyone
aboard could be killed in the fiery process of contacting the atmosphere.

“It was a possibility.”

“It was, and we all knew it,” Jinn did not look
away from her work. “There is a small group of Kristang at 
one
 site, and Colonel Perkins plans for us to land on the other
side of the planet. The Kristang will never know we’re there.”

Bifft snorted. “Maybe. If we’re lucky.”

“They didn’t spot the 
Ruh Tostella
 flying past, and that’s a bigger sensor signature.
They’re not looking. We’ll be as safe as we can be.”

“We-”

“What?” She swiveled her chair to confront the
senior cadet. “What do you suggest? Colonel Perkins gave the only order she
could. The ship’s reactor shut down, we couldn’t stay aboard. The dropships
can’t maintain life support for long, not for this many people. Once we jumped
into this system, we had only one option. You talk a lot about how leaders have
to make tough decisions,” she clacked her incisors on her lower teeth in a
derisive gesture, because guys like Bifft always assumed they would be in
positions of leadership. “The human made a tough decision.”

“Not so tough,” Bifft snapped. “She had no other
choice.”

“If that’s what you think, then what is your
problem?”

“This,” Bifft fumbled with how to respond. “This
whole operation has been a mess.”

“You could have done better?” It was her turn to
sniff. She turned back to her console. “Even if we do get killed here, we
jumped a Jeraptha star carrier. 
None

of our people have ever done that.” Along the way to Camp Alpha, the 
Ruh Tostella
 had dropped off flight
recorder buoys before every jump and wormhole transition, so any Ruhar ship
that found the buoys would learn that the emulation software had worked, after
a few adjustments. “I don’t expect any of us will achieve anything more
significant than that in our entire careers. That is better than staying aboard
a dying ship in the middle of interstellar space, praying for rescue. That was 
your
 plan.”

Bifft opened his mouth to retort, but he
couldn’t think of anything to say, so he sat and silently fumed, and hated
Lieutenant Colonel Emily Perkins.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER SIXTEEN
Jates and Tutula had been conferring about
something, heads close together in a heated argument and their zPhone speakers
shut off. When Tutula grabbed the front of Jates’ uniform top and shook him,
Perkins had enough.

“Knock it off, you two. Mind telling me what’s
going on?”

Tutula cast her eyes away in a guilty gesture,
so Jates straightened in his chair. “Colonel, with the help of Arlon Dahl, we
have penetrated the outer layer of the base’s computers.”

“Outstanding,” Perkins grinned. “Good work.”

“It is nothing, really,” Tutula shrugged. “They
made almost no attempt at information security, except for details of their
current research project. The security of that system is very robust, we will
not be able to gain access from here.”

“What’s the problem, then? You weren’t
detected?”

“No, we have not been detected. As I said, the
base is not concerned about external security. At the base were eleven security
personnel and twenty eight civilian researchers, all the researchers were
evacuated eighteen days ago. The eleven guards have one dropship.”

Perkins considered that. “Ok, a small
contingent, lightly armed, and they don’t know about us, right?”

“Correct. It is unlikely-”

“Tutula, this will go a lot faster if you get to
the point, and tell me what was worth you two arguing about.”

Tutula took a breath and looked at Jates, who
shook his head. She ignored him. “Colonel, perhaps you should sit down.”

Oh shit, Emily told herself as she lowered into
a seat on the somewhat flimsy folding chair, in the tent that was the group’s
headquarters on Camp Alpha. The trip down to the surface had been filled
equally with tension and boredom, and they now had the dropships covered with
stealth netting, tents set up for everyone, and she had a team trying to hack
into the Kristang computers. She would not have risked doing that, except Arlon
Dahl had assured her that his handheld computer was more powerful than any type
of Kristang system. “Go ahead. Give
me the bad news.”

“In addition to this planet being a military
training site, as you know, it was and is also a research base. Even before
your military units cycled through this world, the warrior caste brought humans
here to study.” Jates urgently shot a warning look at Tutula, which she also
ignored. “To study, and to experiment on. Colonel, this will not be easy to
hear.” She related the facts of human civilians being kidnapped from Earth and
used for horrible tests of bioweapons, genetically-engineered pathogens
intended to be used against Earth. Thousands of human subjects had died on Camp
Alpha, half a world away from the blissfully ignorant human Expeditionary Force
who had eagerly been training to serve their lizard masters.

“These experiments,” Perkins asked in a voice
flattened into calm from shock. It sounded to her like her own voice was coming
from far away. “How far have they advanced?”

“Those experiments were terminated shortly after
the wormhole access to your homeworld was shut off. No further supply of test
subjects could be brought here from Earth, and the White Wind clan fell into
serious financial trouble when they lost access to Earth. Colonel, I am sorry
to tell you that, before the wormhole shut down, the experiments had proceeded
far enough that a supply of that original bioweapon was shipped to your planet,
to be used against your people in case of rebellion. The pathogen was still in
development, but,” Tutula tapped the display, “the report stated it was
considered effective enough to kill much of the human population. If needed,” she
added quietly.

Emily sat in stunned silence. When Tutula opened
her mouth to speak, she raised a hand to stop the alien, unable to process any
more information right then. The two Verd-Kris sat quietly, fully understanding
the impact of what they had found. “Tell me,” the human asked when she was able
to speak, “when the Kristang at Earth learned the wormhole had gone dormant and
they were trapped there, what would have been their reaction?”

“We are 
not

Kristang,” Tutula reminded gently. “So any guess we make-”

“They would have shit their pants,” Jates
stated. “Tutula, Colonel Perkins is a soldier. She needs to know the truth and
not some happy stories,” he chided his companion. “Colonel, your guess is as
good as ours, but I am sure you fear the worst. The warrior caste would have
panicked at first, then seized the opportunity to make the best of their
dilemma by making the worst for your people. With access to effective
bioweapons, they could have reduced the human population to a manageable number,
that posed less of an obstacle to the warrior caste exploitation of your world,
then enslaved the rest.”

“A manageable number?” Perkins whispered in
horror.

“We don’t 
know

anything,” Tutula cautioned. “We don’t. Colonel, you should not-”

“Thank you,” Perkins said robotically, so
overwhelmed by emotion that at the moment, she felt nothing. “Do not tell anyone,
especially my team, about the bioweapon sent to Earth. They do not need to
know, not yet.” She would need to tell the Mavericks what she just learned,
because they would find out when she informed UNEF HQ on Paradise. 
If
 she ever made contact with Paradise.
“I assume all human test subjects here were killed?”

That prompted another meaningful look between
the Verd-Kris. Tutula spoke first. “
Those

test subjects from Earth were all killed when the experiments were ended, yes.
The current problem is that there is another set of experiments ongoing, using
human former soldiers who call themselves ‘Keepers’?” She checked the
translation.

“Keepers? Son of a 
bitch
!” Perkins exclaimed. “Those 
stupid
-” She clenched her fists. Fuming at the stupidity of that
misguided bunch was not accomplishing anything. “Sorry. Yes, I know about these
‘Keepers of the Faith’ as they call themselves. Please, Tutula, continue.”

“The current experiments are intended not for
use against humans, but to use humans as disease carriers, to kill 
Ruhar
. The plan is to infect a group of
these ‘Keepers’ with a pathogen that uses human DNA to create a binary prion
agent,” she saw the lack of understanding in Perkins’ eyes. “It is a very
sophisticated technique. These prion precursors will remain dormant in an
infected human for a specified period, the experiment aimed at a dormancy
period of three months. During that time, humans could infect others with the
precursors, but victims would not display any symptoms. In humans, the binary
agents would begin combining into a lethal pathogen in three months, but in
Ruhar, the latency period would be around two months. Ruhar could also infect
other Ruhar, so the human carriers are only needed to get the infection
started. And to provide a cover story, so the Ruhar will think the pathogen is
a natural mutation in humans, and not a biowarfare attack that is, as you know,
banned by the rules of this war.”

Perkins was stunned. “The pathogen could leap
from human hosts into Ruhar, before infected humans are showing any symptoms of
illness?”

“Yes,” Tutula looked guilty though she had
nothing to do with the project. “As I said, this is very sophisticated and
advanced biotechnology. The aim of the research is to produce an agent that 
appears
 to be a naturally-occurring
mutation in humans, a mutation that has evolved an ability to cross into Ruhar.
Colonel, because human carriers would not know they were infected, they could
infect many Ruhar they come into contact with. By the time the Ruhar are
showing symptoms, it will be too late. Two months is long enough for infected
Ruhar to travel to other worlds. This pathogen could spread far beyond the
planet you call Paradise.”

“Oh shit,” blood drained from Emily’s face. “This
will all get blamed on humans.”

 

The two Verd-Kris showed Perkins the data they
had skimmed off the unsecure computer at the Kristang base, which frustratingly
did not contain critical details about the pathogen that was intended for an
attack on Paradise. To assess the nature of the threat and to prepare any
possible countermeasures, they needed the research data that was locked up
behind a secure firewall, but Ernt Dahl was not optimistic about his little
computer breaking that firewall.

“Colonel,” the Jeraptha announced after running
a subroutine he thought had the best chance of penetrating the firewall. “The
attempt was a failure. I am sorry, my system was not designed to penetrate a
well-designed firewall.”

“Is there any other way to get in remotely?”

“Not that I know of,” Ernt shook his antennas. “We
must be extremely careful. If an intrusion is detected, I expect the research
system is designed to erase all of its data. I will work with the cadets who
have studied what you call ‘cy-ber’ security. I must warn you, I am not
hopeful.”

“Then our best hope may be for a Ruhar ship
coming to rescue us, they might have experts who can break into that system,”
Perkins speculated.

“Excuse me, Colonel, but I believe that is not
true,” Tutula said stiffly. “Arrival of an enemy warship would surely trigger
the guards at the base to erase all the research data. The system may even be
programmed to erase itself, if an enemy ship enters this star system.”

“Damn it,” Perkins chided herself. “You’re
right. You are right, Tutula, thank you for reminding me. We need to get that
data, and any biological samples stored at that base, while the guards here are
unaware of our presence. We need a plan to do that, if we can’t access that
research data remotely.”

“We were able to get schematics of the base
layout, however the base has been expanded repeatedly and many security
features are also behind the firewall,” Jates warned. “We could encounter nasty
surprises in any assault.”

“Understood. There is another problem I have to
consider.” She looked first to Tutula, then Jates. “I have a dilemma,” Perkins
explained. “If I tell the Ruhar this bioweapon technology exists, they could
very well quarantine the human population of Paradise, to protect the Ruhar.”

“A quarantine is not your real concern,” Jates
said as he sat back in his chair.

“It is not?” Tutula asked.

“No,” Jates appraised Perkins with a cool eye.
“If the Ruhar fear humans could be carrying an undetectable, lethal pathogen,
they may take action to remove the threat. 
Extreme

action.”

“The Ruhar are not Kristang,” Tutula protested.

“They are also not stupid, nor soft,” Jates
concluded. “When pressed to protect themselves, they have a will of iron. That
is why the Kristang have repeatedly suffered defeats to the Ruhar, despite the
warrior caste focusing their entire society and economy on war. Humans are
still viewed by most Ruhar as conquered and rather pathetic former enemies,
despite all your team has done for them, Colonel Perkins. Gratitude has an
expiration date, fear does not. If the Ruhar federal government believes humans
on Paradise pose a real threat to Ruhar society on multiple worlds, they will
not hesitate to act against a species that is already unpopular. Besides, I do
not think you have a dilemma at all, for you do not have a choice about whether
to inform the Ruhar.”

“Why?” Perkin’s eyes narrowed. “If we destroy
this research base and all its materials and data, the pathogen will not pose a
threat to Paradise.”

“I believe the human expression is ‘that ship
has sailed’? That expression is particularly appropriate in this situation,”
Jates announced without humor. “Colonel, from the data Arlon Dahl was able to
extract, we learned that a Kristang transport ship departed this world eighteen
days ago, carrying the bioweapon and a group of Keepers who will be infected
without their knowledge. That ship,” he paused as Perkins felt a sinking
feeling, “is on its way to Paradise right now.”

 

“The Kristang might have killed everyone on
Earth?” Shauna asked as tears rolled freely down her cheeks. Perkins had told
her team about the bioweapon threat to Earth, before she explained the need for
a physical assault on the Kristang research base to counter 
another
 and more current bioweapon
threat.

“Hey, darlin’, we already knew that could be
true,” Jesse said quietly as he held Shauna’s shoulders tightly. His own face
was a mask of anger, but his eyes were moist and he didn’t care if anyone saw.

“Yes, but now we know that was their 
plan
 all along” Shauna balled up her
fists. “They build a bioweapon, then they shut down the wormhole so they can do
whatever they want to Earth without Maxolhx or Rindhalu enforcing their stupid
rules. By the time the Kristang open the wormhole again, humans will be extinct
and no one will care.”

“Whoa,” Dave gasped. “You think the 
lizards
 shut down that wormhole?”

“Shauna, I do not think that is true,” Irene
declared. “Word at UNEF HQ was, the lizards were totally surprised and freaked out
when the wormhole to Earth shut down, they didn’t expect that to happen. Hell,
if the Kristang can control Elder wormholes, they would use that ability for
something more important than our little planet.”

“Maybe they didn’t shut down the wormhole,” Shauna
snapped at her friend. “Maybe they just, just somehow anticipated that wormhole
was going to shut down, and they planned for it. It doesn’t matter! The lizards
have control of Earth, they have a bioweapon, and no one can stop them from
doing whatever they want.”

“All right, all right,” Perkins appealed for
calm. “Jarrett, I hate the Goddamned lizards as much as anyone, but right now,
we need to focus. We have a job to do.”

“What’s that, Ma’am?” Jesse asked, startled out
of his dark thoughts.

“A dumb-fuck group of Keepers are on their way
to Paradise, and we have no way to stop them. But on this planet, at the
research base, is data and materials the Ruhar could use to create a cure or a
vaccine or some way to protect against this bioweapon. We need to retrieve that
data and hold it until a friendly ship arrives to pick us up. We can,” she
thought for a moment. “Yeah, we can, we should, load the data into a drone that
will respond only to a Ruhar or allied ship, in case a Kristang ship gets here
first and wipes us out,” Perkins noted, thinking it strange that the prospect
of her own impending death was so relatively unimportant, she felt no fear for
herself.

Shauna wiped away tears with the back of her
hands. “Ma’am, I am in. Point me at that base, and no Goddamned lizard is gonna
keep me from getting that data.”

Perkins accepted Shauna’s statement with a grim
nod. “Tutula, Jates, what about you? Attacking that base would be taking direct
action against your own species. I know the warrior caste are not your people,
but-”

“Colonel Perkins,” Jates thumped the console
with a fist, hard enough to shake the tough equipment. “Taking direct action,
taking the fight right to the warrior caste, is the reason why we are out here!
If needed, Tutula and I will hit that base by ourselves.”

“That won’t be necessary,” Irene assured the two
Verd-Kris. “Ma’am, we’ve got plenty of anger and determination, what we need is
a plan. We can’t take any Ruhar with us on the assault, there’s too much risk
of infection even if we stay buttoned up in skinsuits. The Verd-Kris aren’t at
risk of getting sick, or being carriers, right?” Tutula nodded so she
continued. “Then we have to hit that base with the six of us, two Verd-Kris,
one Jeraptha and a couple dropships. We need a plan, and we first need to know
the opposition. So,” she turned to the aliens. “What do we know in terms of
tactical intel?”

 

“Ma’am?” Dave asked with a sideways glance at
the other four Mavericks, huddled around a console and reviewing a schematic of
the enemy base. “A word?”

Perkins nodded and waved the sergeant to where
she was in a cabin seat, working on her tablet. “What is it?”

Dave lowered his voice. “We know this planet was
used to research, and test, bioweapons for use against humans on Earth.”

Perkins cleared her throat that had become
constricted by the thought of unimaginable horrors afflicting the population of
her home planet. Her 
original
 home
planet, she reminded herself bitterly. Earth was lost forever to her now, whether
humans still lived there or not. Paradise was her homeworld now. “Yes.”

“My question is,” he ran a finger on the armrest
of the chair next to Perkins, and showed her a fingertip stained yellow with
fine dust that blew in whenever the dropship’s doors were open. “We’re all
breathing this air. Could the bioweapon they planned to use on Earth be loose
here?”

“God
damn

it,” Perkins swore, keeping her voice low. “I didn’t think of that.”

“I didn’t either, until a minute ago. We know
the ExForce didn’t get infected while we were here, so the lizards must have
kept the weapon contained before the Force shipped out to Paradise. But after
that? The lizards must have tested the effectiveness of air dispersal at some
point. In that case,” he looked at his dust-covered fingertip. “We could all be
exposed. And infected.”

“Shit.”

“Colonel,” Dave shot a guilty glance forward,
where the only other four humans on the planet were struggling with their own
problems. “If we 
have
 been exposed to
that bioweapon, we need to move up the assault schedule. We need to go before
the six of us become combat ineffective, and that could be real soon.”

“Czakja, this is why the United States Army, in
its infinite wisdom, has sergeants.”

“Ma’am?”

“To remind dumbass senior officers like me of
practical considerations that
 I

should have thought of. I’ve had my head in the clouds, worrying about, Goddamn

policy,
 like how UNEF can keep the
Ruhar from enforcing extreme measures against us on Paradise to protect their
own furry little asses. You just reminded me that I need to focus right here,
right 
now
, or there won’t be a future
for humans 
or
 Ruhar. Listen, Czajka,”
she whispered. “Talk with Dahl, or Jates, see if they found any details about
the bioweapon the lizards brought to Earth. I’ve been so worried about this new
weapon, I forgot about the earlier threat. Maybe they recovered enough data for
Ruhar medical scanners,” she nodded toward a hard-cased medical pack attached
to the cabin wall, “to detect whether we have been exposed or not.”

 

“The tests were inconclusive,” the Ruhar cadet
announced with a frightened expression.

“What
 are

the results?” Perkins demanded.

“You have to understand, I am not a doctor, I am
only in my second year at the academy,” the cadet protested. “This device, this
scanner, is also not programmed for human physiology, and I might have adjusted
it incorrectly. It could be wrong, or it-”

“What, are, the results?” Perkins asked in a
softer tone. “I understand you are doing your best under difficult
circumstances. Still, I need information on which to make decisions. Please,
tell me what the device indicates.” She thought that was easier than asking a
young Ruhar, barely into medical studies, to render her own opinion.

“The scanner has detected antibodies in the
blood of all six of you. It is very likely that you have all been exposed to
the bioweapon that was developed for use against humans on your homeworld, on
Earth.”

“Oh, shit,” Irene groaned. “Sergeant Czajka’s
right, Colonel, we need to go ASAP, while we can still fly. And fight.”

“Hold on, Striebich,” Perkins held up a hand to
halt the frenzied conversation that had sprung up around her. “I don’t remember
a lot from the biology course I took in college, but I do know that on Earth,
we use two types of viruses as vaccines. A live virus that has been weakened,”
how that worked, she had no idea. “And a dead virus, a virus that has been
killed. A dead virus can’t harm you, but it does provoke your immune system to
create antibodies somehow, so if you are ever infected with the real virus,
your immune system recognizes the threat and already knows how to kill it. Did
I get that right?”

“Correct,” the Ruhar cadet agreed, slightly
embarrassed for the primitive humans. The crude process of using actual viruses
to create vaccines was something she learned about in her medical history
class, that technique had not been used by the Ruhar for thousands of years,
yet humans still relied on low-tech ancient technology.

“Tell me this: is it possible the pathogen we’ve
been exposed to is dead? It must have been years since the Kristang dispersed
it in the air here. All that time, it has been exposed to air, rainwater, heat,
cold, ultraviolet radiation from the star, right? Maybe our immune systems were
exposed to dead remnants of the bioweapon.”

“That is possible, yes,” the cadet said slowly,
then lifted her head as she warned to the idea. “I was only given a brief
overview of human physiology, but I believe your immunity cells react to
proteins on the outer coating of a virus phage, does that make sense?”

Perkins looked to her team for help but none of
them had any idea. Derek tilted his head and frowned. “That sounds about right.
I saw something like that on the Discovery channel,” he grinned sheepishly.

“Good. Yeah,” Perkins agreed.

“If that is true, then it is possible-” The
cadet smiled. “No, it is likely, that your antibodies are a reaction to
exposure to the dead pathogen. Colonel Perkins, I very much doubt that a relatively
crude bioweapon, like the one described in the files we found, could survive
exposure to the elements on this planet for such a long time.”

“Good,” Perkins breathed a sigh of relief. “I do
not like the idea of dying of a horrible disease on this rock. We still have to
proceed as if we are infected, because we can’t take the chance. The incubation
period of that original bioweapon was a couple weeks, right?”

“Yes, according to the data recovered,” the
cadet acknowledged with a pained stare down at her display. “Colonel, please,
consider that even if you are infected, you might have been exposed to an
early, less effective form of the pathogen. Or the pathogen may be degraded by
exposure here, in which case there may be a longer incubation period.”

“Yes, or the data we recovered might not have
contained details of the final, 
more

effective pathogen. I can’t take the risk we could all get very sick, soon,
before we can attack that base and get the research data we need. Thank you,
cadet,” Perkins cut off further discussion. Her throat had been feeling sore
for the past three days, and it felt worse that morning. She remembered her
throat being sore the last time she was on Camp Alpha. Was it just the
irritating, burnt-tasting dust that covered everything? Or was she infected and
on the verge of a full-blown fatal disease?

 

Perkins put Arlon Dahl and a team of Ruhar
cadets on the task of hacking into the research files of the Kristang base, hoping
they could extract data detailing the pathogen’s chemical signatures,
lifecycle, test results and possible antigens. The next morning, she walked to
the dropship that was being used for the hacking effort, just as Nert walked
down the open side ramp. The Ruhar cadet waved to her, then bent backwards and
forwards, with a grimace.

“Are you well, Cadet?” Perkins asked.

“Yes, Colonel Perkins. My back is sore from
sitting at the console for too long. The team is working very hard,” he assured
her, “we worked all night.”

“Any results?”

“No, their security around the lab computer is
very strong. Arlon Dahl says it is airtight.”

“We can’t access the data remotely?”

Nert looked distractedly at the tablet in one
hand. “We would have better luck playing ‘Pick Up Sticks’ with our butt
cheeks.”

Despite the seriousness of the situation, she
had to smile. “Nert, is that another colorful expression you learned from the
Third Infantry?”

“No,” he turned toward her, his skin under the
light fur turning a darker shade of pink. “I heard that from Shauna, that is,
Sergeant Jarrett. Is it a bad thing to say?”

“No. It is only, discouraging to hear.”

“The team is continuing to work on the problem,”
Nert forced a smile.

“But they’re not optimistic, are they?”

“No, Colonel, they are not. I must be truthful,
there has been no progress for the past seven hours. The remaining methods we
could use to access the data remotely pose a serious risk of our cyber attack
being detected. I am sorry.”

“Don’t be sorry, Cadet. You and the team have
endured harsh conditions and performed far beyond expectations. It looks like,”
she looked off to the horizon, far beyond which lay the Kristang base. “We’ll
have to do this the hard way.”

 

“There is no way to extract that data remotely?”
Perkins requested confirmation of the gloomy news Nert had brought to her.

“I am sorry, no. Perhaps if we had a team of
experts from our data security division, but,” Ernt waved a claw to encompass
the tired group around him, “they are Ruhar cadets, and I am not a computer
expert.”

“You did your best, that’s all I can ask. Damn
it. If we go in and the lizards spot us before we can get to the data core,
they could erase the memory and we’d lose everything, all their records.” She
tugged the hair on the back of her head in frustration. “The research computer
may be programmed to erase itself in the event of an attack on the base.” She
turned her attention to the two Verd-Kris. “What do we know about this research
base?”

“Not enough,” Tutula pointed to her display. “We
have the original schematics of the compound, back when the Kristang built it
to study the star here and its effects on the planet. They were hoping to
understand how the Elder weapon created a focused solar flare that cooked this
world,” she grinned and bounced her eyeballs up and down in the Ruhar
equivalent of an eyeroll. “They had 
no

chance of understanding technology on that level. The base has been expanded
and modified over the years, especially the research facilities, and we do not
have access to those records, other than very basic information.”

“Very well,” Perkins unfolded a chair and sat
down. “Show me what we do know.”

 

 “What’s
the plan, Ma’am?” Shauna asked, looking up from her tablet. All eyes turned to
the human commander, with the two Verd-Kris in particular waiting intently to
hear what the primitive being would say.

Perkins took a breath, steadying herself. “I say
we go in hot, kill everyone, take the data and bug out quick.” She looked to
Irene, then Derek, then the two Verd-Kris pilots. “If it moves and it’s not us,
kill it. I don’t care about collateral damage to the base buildings, as long as
you don’t hit the main research complex.”

“What about your Kee-purr people?” Tutula asked,
pronouncing ‘Keeper’ slowly. “We believe there are still a group of humans at
the base.”

“Don’t fire on them deliberately,” Perkins’ hard
expression softened slightly. “But don’t take any risk either. If there’s a-”
she almost said ‘lizard’. “If there’s an enemy shooting at us and he’s
surrounded by Keepers, take them all out.”

“You are willing to sacrifice your own people to
accomplish the mission?” Tutula’s eyes narrowed as she waited for Perkins’
answer.

“As far as I’m concerned, those Keepers have
pretty much fucked themselves,” Perkins spat on the dusty ground. “I’m not
risking a single one of our lives for them. You have a problem with that?” She
stared Tutula straight in the eye.

“No, Colonel Perkins,” Tutula’s lips twitched in
what was intended as a smile. “Your mission focus is admirable. My people are
not cruel like the Kristang you have encountered in the past, but we are also
not soft. We do not believe in half measures.” A shadow fell across her
expression, and she added in a low voice “With our small numbers against those
of the warrior caste who have stolen and perverted our culture, we cannot
afford to be sentimental.”

Perkins nodded. “There are less than two dozen
Keepers at that base, if we can believe the outdated info we retrieved. Over a
hundred thousand humans are on Paradise, and 
millions
 of Ruhar. We are not putting all those lives at risk just
to possibly rescue a small number of Keepers. When they removed the UNEF
insignia from their uniforms, they should have gotten a Big Chicken Dinner,”
Perkins forgot the aliens would not understand the slang for Bad Conduct
Discharge. “I don’t hate the Keepers, most of them are too stupid to know what
they’re doing. But they got themselves into this mess, and now their mess is
threatening all the lives on Paradise and maybe beyond.”

“Ma’am,” Shauna’s face had a strained,
uncomfortable expression. “What will we do, if we take out the enemy and there
are Keepers still alive?”

“We can’t take them with us,” Perkins noted. “We
have to assume they’re all infected and we have to minimize our exposure. That
means our suits stay buttoned up the whole time, and we follow full
decontamination procedures on the egress. We can’t bring infected Keepers with
us.” She continued to use the term ‘Keepers’ because if she called them
‘humans’ or ‘people’ it would be more difficult to ignore their situation. “If
we accomplish the mission and some Keepers survive, their best bet is to remain
in place. The liz-” she almost used derogatory slang in front of the Verd-Kris,
“The Kristang must have food for the Keepers there, we certainly don’t have
enough food with us to feed that number of people. They can remain at the base.”

Though Shauna still looked uncomfortable, her
arms across her chest and shoulders slumped forward, curled into herself, she
nodded briefly. “We have to tell them about the bioweapon program. They deserve
to know the truth.”

Dave snorted. “Come on, Shauna, those Sleepers
have had the truth staring them in the face for years, and they don’t see it
because they don’t 
want
 to see it.
What makes you think that us telling them the Kristang have been using them as
lab rats will change their minds?”

“Hey, chill, Ski,” Jesse replied in defense of
his girlfriend, putting an arm around Shauna’s shoulders to show he understood
her feelings on the subject. “Like the Colonel said, some of them are just too
dumb to know what they’re doing. Or they are gullible and followed the wrong
people. Look at Eric Koblenz. Yeah, the guy was a Grade-A asshole, but I don’t
think he would do anything to kill people on Paradise, his own people.”

“Ok, ’Pone, yeah, Eric was too dumb to know what
he’s doing,” Dave agreed.

“We should tell them,” Irene added. “If they
don’t believe us now, they will when they all start dying in a couple months.”

“Hell,” Jesse kicked the dusty ground with the
toe of a boot. “What a freakin’ mess. How did we get such bad karma?”

“Bad?” Perkins pretended to be surprised.
“Colter, this is 
good
 karma in
disguise. If our star carrier hadn’t gotten blown up, we would never have known
about the threat to Paradise. And we would not now have this marvelous
opportunity to shine.”

Jesse tilted his head at their commanding
officer. “You do know what ‘opportunity’ means in the military, right, Ma’am?”

“I do, Colter, and my ass will be on the line
right beside you.”

Tutula clapped her hands, startling the humans.
“I see an opportunity for direct action against the warrior caste who have
oppressed my people for millennia. When do we start, Colonel Perkins?”

“Now. Prep a dropship.”

 

The dropship, with Tutula and Derek flying the
outbound leg and Irene acting as relief pilot, followed a medium then low-altitude
stealth flight profile until it was within six hundred kilometers of the base,
where the ship’s sensors picked up the faintest traces of backscatter from the
network of active sensors surrounding the base. At that point, with risk of
detection approaching an unacceptable three percent, Derek gently turned one
hundred eighty degrees, reduced speed and gradually lost altitude while the
others prepped the package. A minute later, a door opened under the dropship’s
tail and a stream of stealthy foam-covered balls fell out, tumbling smoothly as
they fell away.

The dropship gradually increased power and
climbed, while the crew anxiously monitored extremely faint data feeds from the
cluster of more than three dozen sensor drones they had ejected. When each
drone fell to four thousand feet above the ground, an invisible nanofiber
parachute deployed, spreading wide and momentarily bringing its payload almost
to a halt in midair. The foam coating dissolved and the drone unfolded itself,
sprouting wings that swept back to allow the hummingbird-sized drone to build
airspeed. Each drone checked in with its fellows by line-of-sight laserlink, and
only one drone out of the thirty eight was found to be operating at less than
the optimal level. As that drone was not needed, it self-destructed with the
consent of its flock, sending particles no larger than a fingernail to rain
softly down and bury into the dusty ground.

Flying slowly to conserve fuel and avoiding
tripping enemy motion sensors by artificially disturbing the air, the flock of
drones approached the base, encircling it. Several times, a drone had to go
into hover mode as it was swept by an active sensor pulse. The risk was that
the Kristang might have set their air cover sensors on an ultra-sensitive mode,
for the planet had no flying animal life and therefore anything moving in a way
not directed by the prevailing winds had to be a threat. One drone, pinned in
place by an active sensor pulse that came back to sweep over it three times,
self-destructed to avoid detection, so no alarm was raised at the base. None of
the drones risked overflying the site, but as the base was in a mountain
valley, no overflight was needed. One by one, the drones set down just inside
the lines of ridges and foothills, selecting locations where they had line of
sight to the base below on the valley floor. Each drone focused its own passive
sensors on a different area of the base, switching focus in a preprogrammed,
coordinated fashion to provide a three-dimensional map of the target.

 

 “Ah,
damn it!” Dave threw up his hands as he saw the recently-assembled composite
image of the Kristang research base. His frustration was not because of the
base’s defenses, for those appeared to be minimal. There were only two
antiaircraft maser batteries and the Mavericks could deal with those before
the assault. The single dropship assigned to the base was also not a problem,
it was out of its hardened underground bunker with one of the engines laying exposed
on the ground in pieces. As Dave watched, two Kristang were having an animated
argument about the disassembled engine, shouting something at each other. The
sensors were too far away to pick up the lizards’ words, and Dave didn’t give a
rat’s ass what two murderous assholes were saying anyway.

What he did care about was on the other side of
the base, in a separate compound surrounded by a double fence. What he saw
there made him angry. A group of a half-dozen humans, standing around in the
morning sunlight. Several others walked between buildings in the compound, and
from the size of the buildings, Dave guessed there might be as many as fifty
humans housed there. He zoomed in the image to the point where, despite the super
high-tech image stabilization and enhancement gear of the sensors, he still had
to blink to understand what the slightly fuzzy view was showing him. Then he
understood, for he had seen that same image many times before in his military
career. The rectangular areas of flattened dirt were where tents had been set
up, tents or some other type of temporary shelter. People had walked over the
flattened ground after the tents had been removed, but from the heavy tracks
leading to where the tents had been, he knew they had been occupied at some
point. Probably the compound recently had held many more humans, perhaps double
or triple the number that could be housed in the permanent buildings.
“Interesting,” he muttered, then, “Colonel! Ma’am, we got a problem.”

“What is it, Czajka?”

“Keepers,” he nearly spat with disgust. From the
enhanced image, he could see the people standing around in the sunlight were
wearing military uniforms, so they had to be Keepers. “There are at least a
dozen of those shitheads, from what I’ve seen. Could be more still in those
buildings.”

“That’s the control group, then,” Perkins looked
at Ernt Dahl.

“Control group?” Shauna looked at the Jeraptha,
who was shifting his rear pair of legs nervously.

Perkins explained. “Arlon Dahl found information
that one group of Keepers here was used as a control group; they were not
infected, while other groups were infected with different versions of the
pathogen. If a test group became sick unexpectedly but the control group also
got sick, the Kristang would know the cause was some environmental factor and
not the experimental pathogen. Until now, we did not know whether any of the
control group was still alive, because the records Dahl could access stopped
updating when the last group of researchers left this planet. We do know all
the Ruhar they brought here are dead, they used the Ruhar control group for the
final test.”

“I wonder why that group of Keepers is still
alive?” Jesse rubbed the back of his neck. “I mean, why bother? You can see
from that double-layer fence, the lizards here think those Keepers are a
security risk.”

“Insurance?” Shauna guessed. “In case something
goes wrong with the op on Paradise. Or, in case they decide to use the pathogen
on another Ruhar planet, maybe.”

Dave tapped the display again. “Ma’am, I just
thought of something. That control group, they’ve been here a long time,
right?”

“Likely they came here soon after they left
Paradise. Why?”

“If we have been exposed to the original
bioweapon by breathing the air here, the one the lizards planned to use on
Earth, then those Keepers must have been exposed also.”

“Damn,” Jesse slapped Dave on the back. “You’re
right, man. They’re still alive, so we must have been exposed only to a dead
virus. We’re good!”

“Not necessarily,” Perkins stated with a frown,
and Dave nodded agreement. “The Keepers may have been given a vaccine against
the original bioweapon.”

“Yeah, and in that case,” Dave tapped the
display, “the vaccine must be in that base somewhere. Would a vaccine do us any
good, now that we’ve already been exposed?”

“I don’t know,” Perkins admitted.

“Colonel Perkins,” Ernt Dahl crossed his
forearms. “I am not an expert on biological weapons, but I doubt the Kristang
would have vaccinated or treated the humans here against another pathogen.
Because humans on Paradise have not been exposed to the original pathogen,
giving the control group here a vaccine or post-infection treatment would alter
their immune response from the baseline, and reduce their usefulness as a true control
group.”

“Oh. Yeah, that makes sense,” Perkins’ mouth was
a flat line across her face. “Unless the Kristang didn’t have a choice about
it, since they had contaminated this whole planet already. Czajka, good
thinking, we’ll look for a treatment or something when we get inside that base.
Shit. That original bioweapon is another damned good reason why we need to take
that base, soon.”

“Not just to protect ourselves,” Dave said,
knowing what she was thinking.

“No. If there is a vaccine or treatment in there
somewhere, we need it. If we ever get to Earth and the lizards there haven’t
already used the bioweapon against our people, we need a countermeasure.”

 

“Can we do it? Bottom line,” Perkins stood with
her arms crossed after reviewing the data gathered by the sensors.

“Yes,” Tutula’s confidence was absolute. “Their
air defenses are minimal,” she looked to Ernt Dahl for confirmation.

The beetle raised its antenna in a sort of
shrug. “I am not an expert on antiaircraft systems, I am not familiar with the
subject at all. My training was for fleet service,” he admitted.

“Their air defenses are weak and degraded,”
Tutula enhanced the display image, highlighting two areas. “These are defensive
maser turrets. I suspect one of them is offline and has been that way for a
long time.”

“How do you know that?” Perkins asked, leaning
forward to get a better view.

“These turrets require regular maintenance, and
test-firing after components are replaced. The turret to the south has vehicle
tracks leading from the base, and footprints around the site. Vehicle tracks at
the north site have been obscured by blowing sand, and there are no footprints.
Also, this hatch,” she zoomed in the view so powerfully that the image became
fuzzy and shook slightly. “It is open. It should be closed. I think someone
tried to fix a mechanical failure in that turret, and gave up. With the warrior
caste,” she avoided using the word ‘Kristang’, “scheduled to abandon this
planet, they would not expend much effort to maintain facilities here.”

“Ok, I see that. That is a hell of a risk to
take with our airspace craft, based on a lack of footprints and one open
hatch.”

“That is not all, Colonel Perkins. As I said,
the masers would be test-fired after components have been replaced. You can see
here, on the hills to the south, scorch marks where maser beam struck. Those
marks are still dark, indicating that turret was fired recently, and the maser
fire must have come from the southern turret, because they would not have
risked firing over the base. There are no scorch marks on hills to the north.
We can’t absolutely verify condition of the northern turret because that data
is behind their secure firewall,” Dahl’s antenna waved in agreement with that
statement, “so we need to trust our own eyes.”

“All right, Striebich, Bonsu, do you agree?”

“Yes, Ma’am,” Irene nodded. “The three of us
covered this last night. It’s doable.”

“Those maser turrets are armored?” Perkins
observed skeptically. “Your dropships aren’t.”

“The turrets are armored, plus they have an
energy shield,” Irene added with a frown. “And you’re right, our ships are
vulnerable, but we have an ace in the hole. Part of the weapons load we brought
down from the 
Toaster
 are anti-AA
missiles, kind like of like the HARM system our Navy and Air Force uses.”

“Those SEAD systems home in on active sensors,
right,” Perkins noted. “Not on the antiair weapon itself. The Kristang must
use a distributed sensor network.”

“They do,” Irene groaned inwardly, wanting to
avoid a long session of educating their commander about the finer points of
Suppression of Enemy Air Defenses. “These Ruhar missiles are smart, they know
Kristang antiair masers use a look-look-shoot pattern. Two low-powered beam
bursts to track and confirm the target lock, followed by the kill shot. Each of
the Ruhar HARMs deploys twenty eight submunitions that look for maser
backscatter. Once they pinpoint the maser’s location, they kill it. Some of the
submunitions fire their own maser countermeasures to scramble the enemy’s
targeting data, while the others home in and kill the turret. Ma’am, in this
case we have an advantage; we already know exactly where that turret is. We
plan to launch our anti-AA missiles before we come over the ridgeline. We
saturate their defenses, knock them out before exposing ourselves.”

“The base doesn’t have any missile batteries?”

“No. There is a site here to the west where they
planned to install missiles, you can see where they bulldozed the site and
installed part of this concrete pad, here.” On the display, Irene pointed to a
broken concrete tile, half covered with drifting sand. “They stopped work on
it. We know there are not any underground sensor feeds to that area.”

“What about MANPADs?” Dave asked, peering over
Perkins’ shoulder.

“Man, pad?” Dahl asked, confused. He tapped his
right ear. “My translator did not understand that reference.”

“MAN Portable Air Defense,” Dave explained,
miming that he held a missile tube on one shoulder. “A shoulder-launched
antiaircraft missile, you know?”

“Ah, yes,” the Jeraptha’s antennas bounced up
and down. “Our military has such devices, though I have never seen them in
action. Our pilots are warned to be very careful about such devices when used
by the enemy, they can be deadly, even to our advanced airspace craft. But-”

“Yeah, we know,” Irene forced a smile. “Your
training is for Fleet service. Ma’am,” she turned her attention back to
Perkins, “Tutula is right, this is doable. Air defenses are not the biggest
problem.”

That remark drew a raised eyebrow from Perkins,
so Irene continued. “Hitting this base is a waste unless we recover data and
hopefully samples from the research. From what we,” she pointed to Ernt Dahl,
“have been able to get from hacking in, all that data is housed here, in the
research complex in the center of the base. We can avoid damage to those
buildings, but the defenders could trigger a program to erase all the data, or
it might be set to erase automatically in the event that base is attacked.”

“But you have a plan for that?”

“Arlon Dahl has a plan, Ma’am.”

The Jeraptha raised himself up on his back legs,
before remembering other species were threatened by that posture, so he settled
back down on all four legs. “The data connection between the research complex,
and the security center where the guards live, is an underground cable here.
For redundancy they should have multiple cables, I think the connection is
limited to a single cable, because they are more concerned about their own
people stealing data than about external threats. The cable is not deep, it is
part of the original construction and the plans state it is only,” the
translator stumbled awkwardly as it always did when converting measurements,
“three point eight six five meters deep.” Dahl paused to see if Perkins
understood, and she nodded.

“Ma’am,” Irene picked up narrative. “We have
missiles that can blow a hole deeper than that, a missile can cut the cable so
the defenders can’t order the research core to erase its data. Other missiles
will drop off drones that can orbit the area and jam any backup wireless
connection to the research base.”

“Which leaves only the problem of the research
core detecting an attack and erasing itself,” Perkins shook her head. “I am not
liking this plan.”

“We have a plan for that also,” Dahl bobbed on
his forelegs excitedly. “The research core gets data from the base sensor
network, also from that single cable. The core may be programmed to erase
itself in the event of an interruption in the sensor feed, and you can’t take
that risk.” Perkins noted the Jeraptha had said ‘you’ rather than ‘we’. “While
we have been unable to access the research core or the secure network, that
cable also carries unsecure data, and there are buffers spaced regularly along
the cable. We 
can
 hack into those
buffers and plant false sensor data, so the research core will not know about
our attack, until the buffers overflow.”

“How long does that give us?”

“Two minutes and forty eight seconds,” Dahl
flashed a Jeraptha smile, which made Perkins shudder as it looked like a spider
eating something.

“Less than three minutes? That’s not much time,
not enough to land a ship and get inside the research base to download the
core.”

“No,” Irene agreed. “In those hundred and sixty
eight seconds, we need to cut the cable, then locate the cut end of the cable
that leads to the research complex, and physically tap into it with a transmitter
of our own that will keep feeding false sensor data,” she held up a small
device that had a hole in it, for plugging in a data cable.

“That’s a mighty tall order, Striebich. Any way
we can get a missile to drop off a drone that can attach to that cable?”

“We aren’t carrying any drones like that, Ma’am,
and I wouldn’t want to trust a drone to dig in a blast crater to find a severed
cable. One of us needs to do it.”

“In a hundred sixty eight seconds, our missiles
need to crest the ridge, sever that cable, then a dropship needs to fly there, slow
down to land, and a team needs to dig down in a blast crater to find a cable?”

“Yes. We need to knock out air defenses first,”
Irene gritted her teeth.

“I assume you have a plan to do all this?”

“Yes, Colonel. You want to see our assault
plan?”

“Hell yes. Run through it for me.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
Tutula’s fingers softly and expertly slid over
the flight controls, making tiny adjustments to the aircraft’s relatively leisurely
progress over the surface. The Ruhar controls had been designed to be used by
four fingers and a thumb, making it somewhat awkward for the three-fingered
Kristang, and the controls could only be modified to a limited extent. In that
regard, the slow and primitive humans had an advantage over their Kristang
comrades in arms, and Tutula was consoled by reminding herself she was superior
in almost every other way. Her genetically-modified strength, speed,
coordination and reactions made her physically far superior to any human, and
awkward flight controls would be no obstacle to achieving her assigned mission.
“Hawk Two in position and ready,” she announced as her dropship raced over an
imaginary line on the hills below. She was flying the only fighter-dropship
they had brought down from the 
Ruh
Tostella
, a craft the humans called a ‘Vulture’.

“Standby, Two,” the voice of Lieutenant Colonel
Perkins ordered, and Tutula did not react other than her pupils widening
slightly, a sign of pleasure among her species. When Tutula’s people had first
heard of the low-tech species who called themselves ‘Humans’, she feared their
culture would be cruel and oppressive to their females, either by nature, or as
distorted by the warrior caste of the Kristang. She had been extremely pleased
to learn that human civilian and military organizations included females in
positions of authority, even at the highest level. Perkins and General Bezanson
were the two highest-ranking Humans that Tutula knew of, the fact they were both
female was encouraging.

“Hawk Two, you are ‘Go’ to proceed.”

“Acknowledged, Hawk Lead,” Tutula responded and
this time there was no mistaking her emotions, her lips pulled back in a toothy
grin as she contemplated the prospect of striking a direct blow against the
warrior caste. “Missiles on automatic,” she reported, seeing on a side display that
the other dropship’s missile launchers had also been released to the auto-fire
system. She advanced her throttles slightly to avoid losing airspeed as she
pulled the nose up to crest the ridge of foothills, and begin climbing the tall
mountains that ringed the valley where the research base sprawled across the
dusty ground. When the navigation system determined she had reached a preset
distance from the target, the Vulture’s missile bay doors snapped open and the
rotary launchers spat out their deadly payloads, all of them. First in flight
were the anti-AA missiles the humans for some reason called ‘Wild Weasels’, to scramble
sensors and destroy the base’s air defense maser cannon. Right behind were
general-purpose missiles with pre-selected targets, and finally a volley of missiles
that could be retasked in flight as needed. This last group could extend their
wings and loiter above the base for up to twenty minutes, but the attackers all
knew the fight would be over in the first three minutes or not at all.

With her ship’s entire missile payload expended
and running on ahead in parallel with the other dropship’s warbirds, Tutula saw
a blue light flash on her console and she reacted immediately, using a thumb to
push the throttles to maximum. With missiles already approaching the mountain
ridge, there was no longer a need to keep her speed subsonic. Shockwaves from
the low-level passage of the missile formation were causing dust to swirl on
the slopes of the mountains, the sonic boom of her passage would not be noticed
in the chaos.

With the corner of one eye she verified the
enemy base defenses had not yet reacted. The previous day, the tiny drones
planted by the attackers had begun intermittently jamming the base’s sensor
network, turning the silent jamming on for brief periods. They knew from
listening to the base communications system that the personnel there were angry
and frustrated at what they assumed was an old and glitchy sensor network, and
after fourteen hours, those Kristang had thrown up their hands and stopped
trying to diagnose the problem. At first, they had put defenses on alert and
sent teams out to scan for danger, but when nothing was found again and again,
they decided to ignore the glitches and not waste time trying to fix an
antiquated system on an uninhabited and useless planet.

That was why the defenders did not react when
the jamming started again just before the dropships launched their missiles.
Actually, one of the defenders did react, but that reaction was an unhelpful
gesture of slamming a rifle butt into the display screen of the sensor system
when it apparently began glitching again. That move made the other guard on
duty laugh, and delayed their reactions a half-second when more than two dozen
missiles screamed over the ridge of mountains to the south and no one could be
under the delusion that the base’s sensors merely had a glitch!

Tutula’s ship was moving so fast, she had to
roll it upside down and fire the belly jets as she passed over the sharp crest
of the mountain ridge. The belly jets pushed the Vulture down so momentum did
not carry it far out over the valley. Hanging in the sky on a high ballistic
arc would not have been good for her survival, especially as her ship was
momentarily lit by the sun that was just rising over the mountain ridge to the
east. She grunted from the strain as she was squashed down in her seat, waiting
so long to cut the jets and flip upright that her ship came heart-stoppingly
close to scraping on the mountainside. Ignoring the G-force induced haze in her
vision, she flipped up a switch to enable the ship’s maser cannons and searched
for targets, even as she watched missile warheads exploding on the floor of the
valley below.

 

The personnel at the base, having no idea they
were about to be thrust into the role of active defenders on a worthless planet
that was unoccupied, were 
sooooooo

bored and sick and tired and disgusted and generally pissed off that early morning.
They were not entirely sure about the purpose of their mission, because the asshole
scientists who were so important and smart as they huddled in their research
compound, had not bothered to inform the guards about the experiments they were
conducting. But the guards were sure the mission was 
over
 because the scientists and their staff and most of the
primitive humans had already left the planet, yet the guards were still stuck
there. Every single one of the guards had prayed for a serious accident to
befall the dropship that had carried the scientists off the dusty surface, but
their prayers had not been answered. Why hadn’t the guards and the last group
of humans been lifted away from the nasty prison of a planet that was about to
be abandoned? Insurance, that was the only reason they had been given. Their
remaining on the planet was a form of insurance, just in case something went
wrong with the mission and more experiments needed to be conducted. When the
mission, whatever it was, had been successfully completed, then and only then
would a ship come to pull the guards and the last surviving humans off the
surface.

More than a few guards had speculated there
would not be a ship coming at all, except maybe for the purpose of pounding the
base into a smoking crater from orbit. A handful of guards were not worth the
expense of sending a ship such a long distance across the star lanes, not with
Kristang society engulfed in yet another civil war, and not when that star
system was going to be abandoned as it was now too far from effective military
support. Fretting that they had been discarded, angry at their impotence to
control their fate, not having any clan leadership supervision, and just by
nature being hateful assholes, the guards had taken to culling the remaining
humans one by one or in pairs, to use for sport.

At first, they had dropped off humans on the
other side of the mountain ridge, where the stupid humans in their own compound
at the base could not see what was happening. The first hunt had been
frustrating, the Kristang simply dumped the former soldier on the ground and
told him to run, as they readied their hunting gear. That human evaded pursuit
by unexpectedly going 
up
hill and
hiding in a shallow cavern, it was not until the next morning that the guards,
having grown tired and frustrated and bored with the game, activated the
tracking device they had injected into their quarry. At that point, angry they
had been duped and had wasted most of a day looking in entirely the wrong
place, they hammered the cavern with a missile, burying the human where he
died.

Subsequent hunts were scarcely more satisfying,
as the star-blasted planet had no trees and their human prey had difficulty
finding cover. Even arming the prey with primitive projectile pistols did not
offer much sport, because being armed gave the prey a foolish sense of
confidence and drew them out, where they were easily killed by the armor-suited
hunters.

After slaughtering four humans in hunts that
were not much fun at all, the guards tried another game that offered much more
sport; unarmed combat. Taking off their armored suits, a guard went into a
makeshift sparring ring with a human and later, a pair of humans. Giving the
humans short knives was necessary to make the combat interesting though even
then, the Kristang usually quickly took away the knives and turned them on the
prey. The games were just getting fun, with two guards sustaining serious knife
wounds, when their leader declared a stop to the games. They were running low
on humans, so if the scientists ever did return and needed the humans for
experiments, they would be extremely upset to find all the test subjects had
been killed for sport. After the games were over, most of the guards had taken
to sleeping late, since they had almost nothing to do other than making sure
the remaining humans did not escape from their prison compound. Escape where?
None of the native life was edible to humans, so other than a guard doing a
remote headcount twice a day, they ignored the humans and spent their time
struggling against boredom. The only mildly interesting thing that had happened
for weeks was an intermittent sensor glitch that no one cared enough about to
diagnose.

So, when a cloud of missiles streaked over the
mountain ridge followed by a pair of Ruhar dropships, the guards were caught
completely by surprise. Most of them were asleep, with only two technically on
duty in the base’s security center. Those two froze for crucial seconds, disbelieving
the attack could be real. Surely it had to be a surprise exercise thrown at
them by the base commander, who had grown disgusted by his men’s lack of
discipline and the slovenly state of their quarters. The missiles had to be part
of a simulation, and the guard who had smashed the glitchy sensor display was
tempted to let the sim play out without reacting, so the base commander would
not get the satisfaction of seeing his men racing around for nothing.

Then the ground shook as an incoming missile was
exploded by the one functioning maser air-defense cannon, and the two guards
scrambled into action, triggering an alarm and powering up the defense shield
that protected the control center. Raising that shield when the attack began
might have been a good idea, but raising it as missiles were already impacting actually
shortened the guards’ lives.

 

The first volley of missiles were weighted
heavily toward taking out antiaircraft defenses, concentrating on destroying
the single active maser cannon turret. The missiles Irene had named ‘Wild
Weasels’ quickly overwhelmed the maser cannon, saturating its sensor network
with submunitions that scrambled the sensor data or directly attacked the
targeting sensors with their own single-use maser blasts. Within its armored
turret, the computer controlling the maser cannon was calmly concentrating on
prioritizing targets and trying to see through the confused sensor data, when
the thick armor of the turret cracked under direct impact of two shape-charge
warheads. The superheated plasma of the warheads burned through the armor and
fried the power feeds to the maser, rendering it useless and shattering the
maser’s exciters, before it had a chance to even detect the pair of vulnerable
dropships coming over the mountain crest behind the missiles.

The second volley of missiles went straight for
preprogrammed targets, flying violently erratic courses until the base’s air
defense was knocked offline, then giving up any evasive maneuvering and boring
through the air straight at their designated targets. The enemy dropship was
exploded, to prevent that unflyable hulk being used as a stationary missile or
maser cannon platform. Missiles plunged into the base housing, killing all the
guards who were still asleep or racing out of warm beds to react to the threat.

With all primary targets destroyed, most of the
last wave of missiles queried the battle control systems aboard the lead
dropship, and were told to switch to secondary targets, then targets of
opportunity. One missile, having already deployed its wing and opened
airbreathing doors to extend the time it could loiter over the base, saw an
opportunity. The base control center, considered both a hard target and
unnecessary now that base air defense was down, had foolishly delayed raising
the separate energy shield that protected it.

‘
Well,
ain’t that some shit
?’ the missile said to a missile orbiting in the air
beside it.

‘
Sloppy
’,
the second missile’s tiny yet intelligent brain responded over the tactical
network. ‘
They are way too slow
.’

‘
I hate
sloppy soldiers
,’ the first missile declared. ‘
I bet their bunks are unmade and their footlockers are unlocked. If
there is one thing in this world that I hate, it is an unlocked footlocker.’

‘
Damn,
that defense shield is still only twelve percent charged
,’ the second
missile noted with surprise and disgust. ‘
Hey,
I have an idea
.’

The pair of missiles linked their targeting
data, shed their wings and closed their airbreathing ducts. Gouts of white-hot
flame scorched the air behind them as they plunged downward, zipping through
the strengthening energy shield as if it weren’t there at all and detonating
their warheads on wide-dispersal pattern.

The brains of the two guards did not even have
time to think ‘damn 
this
 sucks’
before they became dark stains on a wall, just prior to that wall being churned
into vapor. Ironically, the original assault plan had called for leaving the
control center untouched in the initial phase, because the attack planners had
assumed the powerful energy shield would be active. The slow reaction of the
guards prevented them from living long enough to see who had hit them.

 

Surgun Jates tensed, poised at the back ramp of
the second dropship. The ramp was already opening as the craft first dropped
sickeningly in a high-speed descent, then stood on its nose with forward
thrusters firing to slow its progress as the ground rushed up to meet it. He
felt the floor tilt and he was grateful for the strong restraints that held him
securely, as his powered skinsuit legs absorbed the strain of the ship flaring
to land. Jates knew his genetically-enhanced body could take Gee forces that
would render a human unconscious; his concern was that he could not complete
the task alone and the Jeraptha was needed for breaking into the research core.
That left humans as his only assistance and he was not confident as he glanced
at the biosigns in a corner of his visor. All three of his team members were
showing high heartrates, dangerous blood pressure and were fluttering on the
verge of unconsciousness. He noted two of them were slumping against their
restraints, temporarily useless. The three sergeants did not appear to be
capable of performing the mission, but Jates reminded himself the warrior caste
had been hurt very badly, twice, when they underestimated humans.

Then he had no more time for worry, because the
ramp was fully open and the ground was in sight. While the dropship was still five
meters in the air, he popped free of the restraints and leaped out, diving
headfirst through the opening then flipping to fall feet-first, trusting the
skinsuit and his enhanced bone structure and muscles to survive the fall.

He hit hard and rolled in a well-practiced maneuver,
the skinsuit steadying him and helping flip him upright. As soon as his boots
contacted the ground, he was running with power-boosted strides, keeping low as
time in the air between strides was time his legs could not propel him forward.
The crater made by the missile that had cut the datalink to the research
compound was in front of him by another forty meters, according to the glowing
numbers at the bottom right of his helmet visor. An idle part of his brain told
him forty meters in the common human measurements the team used was thirty five

latrans
 in Kristang terms, a bit of
trivia that became useless as his boots skidded and brought him to a halt at
the blackened lip of the crater. The shape-charge warhead had focused its
explosive energy downward to slice the buried cable so the lip of the crater
was only eight meters across, but smoke and dust obscured even the enhanced
vision provided by his helmet, and the crumbly dry sand the base was built on
was already sliding down to fill in the hole. He pulled a compression grenade
off his belt, checking to verify it was still on its lowest-power setting,
pressed the button with a thumb and dropped it in the hole. There was a blast
of air but no shrapnel so he did not bother to duck out of the way or even
flinch, knowing the Ruhar skinsuit and helmet would protect him.

The blast momentarily cleared the air in the
hole, creating a vacuum that was quickly erased by inrushing air that swirled
with even more dust and smoke. That did not matter as Jates’ helmet sensor had
built an accurate picture of the hole during the split-second his vision had
been clear. “We have a 
problem
!” He announced
over the tactical circuit.

“What is it?” Jesse asked as he skidded to a
stop behind Jates almost too quickly, needing the Verd-Kris to steady him from
toppling into the hole. Jates said nothing about the human’s clumsiness, merely
flexing his ankles to hop down into the dust-obscured hole. “Oh, shit,” Jesse
exclaimed as his visor fed him the synthetic view Jates had acquired. The
missile had impacted at a junction where sometime after the base was built,
someone had spliced in a cable at a right angle, running back to a building
behind Jesse. The junction was not a problem, the problem was someone had the
bright idea to protect the splice by encasing it in a block of some hard
ceramic material. Pieces of the ceramic had flaked away and there were
pockmarks on the side where the warhead had exploded, but the hard block was
not cracked. “What about-”

“Can we blow it apart?” Shauna asked behind him,
already unslinging her backpack that contained a mix of explosive charges that
had been selected for various yields.

“We can try it,” Dave suggested.

“Darlin’, no, not this time,” Jesse declared as
he slid down into hole on his backside, the skinsuit automatically stiffening
to protect him from cuts and scrapes.

“I only blew up 
one
 island, Jesse, this is not fun-”

“I’m all for blowing shit up but we don’t have 
time
,” Jesse cut her off. “Jates, this
thing can’t be that big, I can see the cable coming in from the side and it
looks to me it’s not as thick as my arm is long. Can we just pull it away?”

Jates had his gloves gripping the block on top,
and had been using his suit’s power to nudge the block back and forth while the
humans argued. His intent had been to judge the block’s size by his ability to
move it so they could scale explosives appropriately, he had not thought of
simply moving the block out of the way. The human called ‘Jesse’ or ‘Cornpone’
had a point, they had precious little time before the data buffers overflowed.
“Sergeant Colter, we can try. I will take this side.”

Jesse grunted and strained to dig his gloved
fingertips into the hard ceramic until he could see it was no use, he had to
rely on the gecko-like grip of the gloves. Even they slipped and he fell
backwards just as the block began to move. “I can’t get a grip, it’s too smooth,”
he spat in frustration.

Jates agreed without words, flexing his gloves
that also had failed to gain a purchase.

“Twenty eight seconds, guys,” Dave warned and
just then, inspiration struck him. “Jates, Jesse, duck down,” he warned as he
fell onto the block, feeling it rock beneath him. Pulling his rifle out of the
sling, he selected explosive-tipped flechettes and shouted “Fire in the hole!
Ow! Shit!”

The explosive rounds barely had time to arm themselves
after they left the gun barrel, as Dave had the muzzle almost too close to the
block. Sharp chips of ceramic pelted his legs, faceplate and worst of all, the
crotch of his skinsuit. He was saved only because the rifle had communicated
with the suit, so the suit’s computer stiffened the skin before the first round
left the barrel. “Ow! Uh, God
damn

it.”

“Come on, Ski, quit whinin’,” Jesse grunted as
he grabbed his friend’s legs and pulled him down to tumble awkwardly into the
hole behind Jesse. He felt for a handhold blasted by the rifle and found
several. “Got a grip now!”

“Yes,” Jates acknowledged and dug three fingers
into cracks caused by the rifle rounds. “Three, two, one, 
pull
.”

The heavy block did not move at all, then it
moved all at once as it lost its grip on the soil around it. Jesse and Jates
fell backward on top of Dave and the block toppled over onto all three of them.

“Don’t you guys move!” Shauna ordered. “I see
the end of the cable exposed, I’m reaching down for it.”

“Thirteen seconds,” Dave reported unseen from
the bottom of the pile.

“I 
know
,”
Shauna snapped with irritation, tossing aside her pack to get access to the
only thing she needed right then, a data transmitter the size and shape of a
golf ball. The ball had a hole, which Shauna carefully fitted the cable end
into. Except the damned frayed cable caught on the lip of the hole and refused
to go in. “Gotta cut a fresh end,” she pulled a knife off her belt and, holding
the golf ball firmly but carefully, sliced through the cable to create a clean
end. She dropped the knife and breathlessly threaded the cable into the hole of
the golf ball. Instantly, her visor lit up to report a solid connection. “Got
it! Colonel Perkins, we have a connection. Our fake sensor data is flowing
through the cable.”

“I see it,” Perkins’ voice sounded shaky, which
might have something to do with the timer showing the buffers would have
overflowed in eight seconds, if Shauna had not hooked the computer into the
cable. Or it could be not knowing whether the core in the research compound believed
the bullshit sensor data fed into the cable. The data they fed in was simply
recordings of real sensor input, with the time codes adjusted, but the team had
no way of knowing whether the core could tell it was being spoofed. “Good
work.”

“Great,” Dave gasped from the bottom of the
pile. “Could you guys get off of me? You’re 
heavy
.”

Extracting themselves from the hole was not
easy, as they could not simply push the ceramic block away without risk it
might fall on the data transmitter. Shauna stayed holding the transmitter,
wrapping a high-tech type of duct tape to hold it in place, while Jates and
Jesse wriggled out from under the block, holding it up so Dave could crawl out.

“Thanks, guys,” Dave stood up in the hole,
brushing smeared dirt off his skinsuit.

“You Ok, Ski?” Jesse inspected his friend’s
suit, not seeing any tears.

“Yeah, I’m fine, the suit went rigid to protect
me. Problem was, my legs were bent at a bad angle down in the hole when the
suit locked up, and I couldn’t move. Damn,” he glanced down at his thighs and
crotch, where ceramic chips had scratched the tough suit material. “I almost
shot my balls off. Not doing 
that 
again,”
he reached up to pull himself out of the hole, his head clearing the lip of the
crater and he used the chin of his helmet to dig into the crumbling soil. “Now
we-Whoa!” He slid back into the hole as gunfire erupted, rounds biting into
the crater lip where his head had been moments before. “We got company!”

 

“I see them!” Derek held his voice steady as he
swiveled the Dodo dropship’s belly maser cannon turret and sent withering fire toward
a pair of Kristang who were shooting at the away team, stitching a line across
the ground and slicing into one of the armor-suited figures. “Damn it!” Derek
shouted and the maser cut off. “Bring us around, that damned building got into
my line of sight.”

“What’s inside that building?” Perkins asked
from her console behind the pilots while her stomach flip-flopped from the
tight turn Irene pulled the dropship into.

“Nothing important,” Derek replied distractedly,
concentrating on holding the targeting sensor on the gap between buildings
where the enemy had been.

“Then light it up,” Perkins ordered. “Away team,
keep your heads down.”

“Yes, Ma’am,” Derek cursed himself for not
thinking of that. “On the 
waaaay
!”
With the maser exciters cranked up to full power, the beam blasted the building
apart, smoke, fire and debris erupting skyward. “I can’t see anything. Away
team, you see any hostiles?”

“We can’t see shit,” Jesse reported as a camera
popped up above his helmet on a thin stalk, showing him only a chaotic cloud of
dust and scorch-marked debris raining down. No way was he sticking his head
above the crater lip until he was certain the two Kristang were dead. “Ow!” He
ducked down as a chunk of debris clanged off his helmet. “We’re getting pelted
with building parts down here.”

“The transmitter is safe,” Shauna assured the
team as she huddled over the device, protecting it with her body.

“Should I hold fire?” Derek asked.

“Hell no!” Jesse snorted. 
Seriously
, he asked himself? The infantry have their asses hanging
out to dry on the ground, and the close air support is asking whether to expend
ordnance? “Hit it again! Maser beams don’t cost us nothing.”

Derek poured maser fire to saturate the area, in
case there were more Kristang hidden in the cluster of buildings, until there
was no cluster of buildings, only shattered and smoking ruins, pieces of walls
standing by themselves, and debris cascading down all over the area. Derek
winced as he saw pieces of building spinning through the air in the direction
of the research compound, and he was relieved to see puffs of dust kicked up on
the ground as the chunks fell well short. “I’ve got nothing left to target,
Ma’am,” he glanced back to Perkins, just as his console flashed red with a new
threat. “
Shit
! Irene get us out of
here now now now now now!!”

 

The pair of Kristang who fired on the away team
had intended to kill the attackers who were assumed to be Ruhar, based on their
familiar flexible skinsuits, the rifles they carried and most importantly the
unmistakable outlines of their dropships. The two guards had hurriedly pulled
on their old third-hand powered armor suits, ignored the multiple warning
lights of systems that had failed or were on the verge of failure, and emerged
inside the building closest to the away team by using a tunnel that was not
part of the original base construction. They did not know why the attacking
aliens had bothered to drop down into a crater, in a part of the base that was
not at all of any importance and was not near any of the tunnels. All they knew
was they had been ordered to kill the aliens with maximum violence and that is
what they did, except the ‘maximum violence’ part was inflicted upon 
them
 by a dropship flying close air
support. They died not knowing whether they had hit any of the aliens.

And they died not knowing their part of the base
defense was a decoy, a mere distraction.

 

A quarter kilometer away from the away team, in
an area of the base that appeared to be nothing but storage sheds, dirt and
dust arced upward as two large buried doors swung open, revealing a ramp and in
a flash, a large vehicle was racing up the ramp to slew sideways to a halt. If
the Kristang had ever seen a Mad Max movie, they might have taken their
inspiration to build that vehicle. It was based on a large truck that had been
retired from service because two of its four motors were burned out and the
frame was cracked. In its new role, the truck did not need to drive far nor did
it need to maneuver over uneven terrain, it only needed to climb the ramp into
the open. Once the truck reached the surface and drove onto a hard ceramic pad
that had been set down to hold its weight, it stopped, and explosive pistons
fired downward to bore into the pad, holding the truck in place securely and
permanently. The truck was a one-use, last-ditch measure of desperation that
had been slapped together from spare parts, partly as a sign of defiance to the
clan leadership who denied essential resources to the guards responsible for
the base. There was no funding to install the planned antiaircraft missile
batteries, and no spare parts for one of the two AA maser turrets? Fine, the defenders
had said. Screw the clan leadership, we can provide for our own defense, and so
they did.

The old truck was modified to carry an active
sensor array, an energy shield generator on top at the front over the cab, a
thick stack of heavy powercells, and on top in the back, a box containing six
portable antiaircraft missiles the humans called ‘Zingers’. The Zinger was
designed to be carried by infantry, but was a versatile weapon that had been
adapted for use by aircraft and even ground-launch sites as sort of a cheap and
short-range AA defense. Seconds after the truck’s wheels ground to a halt just
beyond the top of the ramp, the launcher pod rose up on its mount, swiveled,
and fired three Zingers at the closest dropship.

 

“I’m going for the deck!” Irene pushed the Dodo’s
nose down in a power dive, knowing she was too close to outrun the short-range
missiles. To her right, Derek was activating countermeasures to confuse the
missile guidance systems, and the Dodo’s defensive maser turrets began to
engage targets. With power directed to the craft’s energy shield and
point-defense masers, there was no energy available for the main maser cannons
and their missile bays were empty.

 

Flying high cover above the base in her Vulture,
Tutula had been frustrated and bored, irritated to be kept out of the action.
She knew her part in the operation was vital and still she chafed at being
inactive. Even when defenders attacked the away team, she had been forced to
hold fire because the other dropship was in the way.

Now she had a threat she could engage, though
her own missiles had all been expended. The last two missiles were loitering
above the base, being held in reserve to deal with unexpected threats. With the
other dropship fully busy fighting for its own survival, she retasked the pair
of missiles onto the enemy truck, seeing them instantly shed their wings and
streak down at full power. As she pulled her craft into a tight diving turn,
she warmed up her maser cannons and began hammering the truck’s energy shield.

 

Irene dove straight away from the oncoming
missiles, being careful not to make a turn that would cause the tail of the
dropship to block a maser turret from line of sight to the missiles. The
point-defense masers were on automatic and she had faith in their abilities
based on her training and simulations, but the system was not perfect, and the pilot
operating manual stated it worked best when the ship they were attached to flew
straight and smooth. Yeah, she thought, try doing 
that
 when people are shooting at you. The Zinger was not a
sophisticated opponent, its warhead could only switch between direct impact and
proximity-kill modes, not having the capability to project its own maser beams
and not containing submunitions or countermeasures to spoof defenses.
Regardless, her trainers had emphasized that the Zinger could be a deadly
threat to a dropship at low altitude. Even her small Dodo dropship was larger
than a Boeing 777 and ungainly in an atmosphere. 
Fly
, she told herself, fly the ship and let Derek and the automated
defenses do their jobs. She aimed for a gap between two tall warehouse-type
buildings, beginning to reduce throttle and pull the nose up.

“One down,” Derek’s terse report was delivered
in a strained voice befitting the occasion. A maser turret had scored a direct
hit on a Zinger, getting lucky as the wildly jinking missile flew into the path
of a beam. The missiles had popped up after launch and were now above them, he
knew Irene was hoping ground clutter would confuse the missiles’ sensors and he
prayed she was right.

“Pulling up,” Irene announced, having no choice
unless she wanted to pancake the ship into the ground. The maneuver worked as
planned, between the countermeasures scrambling the Zinger sensors and ground
clutter making the dropship hard to find, both of the enemy weapons temporarily
lost target lock. One of them slowed and turned aside to get a wider-angle
perspective, its momentary straight flight making it an easy target for
defensive masers that cooked off its warhead, sending shrapnel in every
direction.

The second missile never hesitated, as it had expected
to receive sensor data from the missile that sacrificed itself. It did receive
data from its own sensors, backscatter from maser beam that pinpointed the
location of the dropship inside its fuzzy stealth field. Instantly, the missile
resolved the target from the ground clutter and adjusted course, deciding to
detonate its warhead on proximity-mode at the last second.

“We’re hit,” Irene grunted as alarms blared and
red lights flashed in the cockpit. One engine began to tear itself apart, she
reached for the controls to eject it from its pylon but Derek had already
acted, and the craft jerked again with the sudden loss of weight as explosive
bolts blew the pylon away from the wing. Irene almost lost control, the flight
management system not wanting to do what she needed to do. Didn’t the stupid
computer see the warehouse they were about to crash into? Going to full power
on the remaining engine, she rolled the ship to one side to avoid the starboard
wing clipping a rooftop as they roared past.

“More missiles inbound,” Perkins warned. “Tutula,
we could use some help here.”

 

Tutula was having her own problems. Both of the
missiles she tasked to take out the truck had been intercepted and destroyed by
Zingers launched in quick snapshot that she had to admire, and now the truck’s
missile launcher was swiveling upright to reload from the magazine below. Hits
from her maser cannons only made the truck rock side to side, its energy shield
deflected the maser pulses aside to sear the ground around it. She needed to
get closer so the energy of her maser beams was not weakened by passage through
the atmosphere. She needed to get closer without being shot down or she would
be no use to anyone. “Coming,” she acknowledged and turned toward the other
dropship that was wobbling and trailing smoke. Her only hope would be to draw
attention of the missiles away from the crippled ship.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
“They need our help. Colter, you are with me,”
Surgun Jates ordered as he flexed his powered legs and jumped upward out of the
crater.

“What about me?” Dave’s own suit was flashing
yellow warnings that the nanomotors in the legs were not operating at full capacity.

“You and Jarrett remain here,” Jates steadied
Jesse as that soldier landed heavily from his own leap out of the crater. “That
transmitter must not be damaged or this whole mission is for nothing.”

“But-” Dave began to protest.

“Dave, cover me,” Shauna cut off the argument.
“I’m a sitting duck down here.”

“Gotcha,” Dave readied his rifle and extended
the sensor mast atop his helmet to pop up above the lip of the crater.
“Cornpone, man, via con Dios.”

“Take care of my girl,” Jesse answered without
thinking, then there was no time for thought as he dashed off after the Verd-Kris
soldier.

 

Surgun Jates had a simple plan; hit the truck
and hit it hard. He knew from the taclink sensor feed what the truck looked
like and where it was, and he also knew from experience that an energy shield
was weakest where it contacted the ground. The shield was designed to protect
from threats above, it could not be strong everywhere. “Colter, go right,” he
instructed as he came around a low building and caught a glimpse of the
makeshift air defense vehicle. As he turned to run straight at the truck, there
was a loud 
whoosh
 sound accompanying
the launch of two more missiles. Jates held his fire, knowing his maser beam
and flechette rounds would only bounce off the shield and alert the enemy to
his presence. When he was less than thirty meters from the target, a searing
maser beam from above struck the shield, deflecting from the shield and
blinding the sensors of Jates’ suit for a long second. If he had been next to
the truck when that beam struck, the backscatter would have boiled him alive
despite the best efforts of the skinsuit to protect him. He crouched to his
knees behind an elevated pipe, shaking his head and blinking to clear his own
innate senses as the suit’s systems cycled through a restart. It took less than
two seconds, during which time he was blind and exposed and useless, hoping the
soldiers in the truck had been similarly blinded and unaware of his approach.

The sensors came back on abruptly, blinking a
yellow warning about the outer layer of the suit’s shell being scorched and recommending
him to be careful. “Be 
careful
 in
combat?” He snorted in a bitter laugh at the Ruhar suit designers. Then he was
up and racing forward, leaping over the pipeline and gaining speed. To his
right, he saw Sergeant Colter closer to the truck and guessed that human had
been masked from the maser blast by the building.

Jates used his superior speed to reach the truck
just before Jesse, gesturing for Jesse to get on the ground and roll like the Verd-Kris
did. As Jates hit the ground and rolled, his sensors went blind again and he
felt a fiery tingling like he was being bitten by thousands of poisonous ants,
then he was through the energy shield and most of his sensors came back online.
A quick glance upward revealed no Kristang looking down for threats on the
ground. Jesse wriggled through the shield, coming to his knees and shaking his
helmet before looking over to flash a thumbs up gesture Jates had become
familiar with.

Jates pointed to the missile launcher box on the
back of the truck above Jesse, and spun to hop onto the truck frame behind the
cab.

 

Jesse did not need engraved instructions on what
to do, he figured the situation called for 
blowing
shit up
 and doing it 
right fucking
now
. His rifle was already selected for flechette rounds in armor-piercing
mode, he held the weapon above his head to clear the big truck’s frame rails
and used the pop-up sensor mast of his helmet to get a clear view of the
target. The Ruhar rifle did not have a full-auto feature, so Jesse depressed
the trigger button repeatedly to send three-round bursts of flechettes into the
swivel mount under the launcher box. The first three rounds penetrated the
makeshift mount, locking it in place and skewing the box above. Subsequent
rounds automatically switched themselves from armor-piercing to explosive mode
based on sensor data from the suit’s computer, and the tiny but powerful
explosive tipped flechettes ripped into the unarmored launcher box, tearing it
apart like tissue paper and setting off the last three Zingers.

The truck rocked as the Zinger motors were set
off by the explosive energy, and the damaged missiles rocketed unguided out of
their tubes to pinwheel across the sky. One Zinger, so badly damaged to have
its casing nearly cracked in half, broke apart while still in the launch tube.
What remained of the launcher box was shredded and then the missile’s warhead
exploded after it had thudded into the ground no more than twenty meters from
the truck. The explosion knocked Jesse off his feet and sent him skidding
across the ground past the front of the truck, his boots clipping a wheel along
the way. Jesse spun as he slid across the dusty ground, one arm firmly gripping
the rifle while the other flailing to halt his uncontrolled skid. The rifle was
torn from his grip and his helmet bashed into something hard. Jesse slumped in
his suit as he rolled to a stop, blinking and seeing only stars in his vision.

 

Surgun Jates cursed words that could not be properly
translated. He had been about to fire rounds into the truck’s lightly-armored
cab when the explosion knocked him off his feet and he had fallen heavily to
the ground on top of his rifle, cracking the casing of the weapon’s control
system. He tossed it away in disgust and extracted a sidearm as the truck’s cab
door creaked open and the muzzle of a Kristang rifle poked out, mercifully at a
bad angle to target Jates. The Surgun grasped the door with one glove and
reached around to pump shots into the cab with his sidearm, emptying the
weapon’s sixteen-shot magazine then tossing the spent pistol away to grasp the
dead Kristang’s rifle and haul it out of the cab. He no sooner held the rifle’s
stock when it was shot out of his hands, the rounds coming from inside the cab.
Reacting, he reached back for a grenade on his belt and tossed it into the cab,
slamming the door closed and using his weight to hold it there until the
grenade detonated and the door came flying off, Jates with it. He lay
momentarily stunned on the ground before popping to his feet in a smoothly
gymnastic move assisted by the skinsuit’s stabilizers, the top of his helmet
crashing into something unseen and making him fall again. When he was able to
roll onto one side, he saw a figure in Kristang hard armor facing him and
holding its helmet with both hands, just as stunned as Jates. The rifle the
figure had about to use to shoot Jates had gone flying away beyond reach, but
farther from Jates. For a split-second both soldiers looked at the lost rifle
then each other, both judging they did not have time to dive for the weapon. The
Kristang reached behind his back for some type of weapon, so Jates did the only
thing he could do; he launched himself through the air to tackle his opponent
before the man armed himself. Too late, a pistol came around toward Jates, who
survived only by ducking his head and using the top of his helmet to smash the
other under the chin. The blow made them separate and the pistol soared up onto
the truck that was still rocking from mini explosions.

The Kristang howled and an evil-looking knife
appeared in one hand, having slid down from a sheath on his forearm. Holding
the knife for slashing rather than stabbing, he held his other arm out wide and
stepped sideways to trap Jates against the truck so Jates responded by racing
inside the man’s guard and wrapping him in a crushing bear hug. The knife came
down into Jates’ back—

Where it snapped and slid away just as the Verd-Kris
had known it would, the skinsuit having stiffened and produced a slippery hump
in the area where the knife was projected to impact.

“Ruhar weakling scum!” The enemy soldier
screamed, spittle flinging onto the inside of his faceplate to drop down
against the repulsor field.

As they struggled, the enemy to break away and
Jates to gain a grip on a weak area of his opponent, Jates eyeclicked his
faceplate to go clear and he was rewarded by a gasp and brief hesitation by the
other man. “I am no Ruhar,” Jates grunted, using the all-too-brief moment of
surprise to get both hands firmly around the other man’s left arm. “I am 
true
 Kristang.”

“Liar! Traitor!” The opponent screamed and used
the full power of his hardshell armor in a futile attempt to break free of the
crushing grip exerted by the Ruhar skinsuit’s gloves.

“
You

are the traitor to our heritage,” Jates’ words came out in a bubbling gasp as the
two spun around and slammed each other repeatedly against the truck.

“You are slaves to the Ruhar.”

“We are all slaves. My masters have better
technology.” Jates butted a shoulder under the man’s chin then pressed a knee
on his chest, ordering his skinsuit to exceed its safety limits. The two
powered armor suits strained and whined, warning lights flashing in each visor
until Jates gave a mighty jerk backward and the enemy’s left arm tore away at
the weak shoulder joint in the armor, taking the flesh-and-bone limb with it.
The soldier slumped backward as blood spurted out only briefly before a seal
formed over the wound. Nano machines injected into the man’s spine kept him
from going into shock, he actually tried to stand and face Jates defiantly. The
Verd-Kris soldier viciously swung the torn armor limb like a club straight into
his injured opponent’s faceplate; once, twice, three times until the man went
limp on the ground, and Jates finished him by stomping hard on the neck joint
of the suit, snapping the bones beneath.

“
Holy

shi-” Jesse was on one knee, his rifle barrel wavering as his vision had not
cleared completely. “I couldn’t get a clean shot,” he explained.

“It is finished,” Jates wriggled inside the
skinsuit, his real limbs and joints aching terribly from the strain. When the
armored limb tore loose, his skinsuit was using so much power, it almost popped
Jates’ shoulders out of their sockets.

“You done tore his arm off and beat him to 
death
 with it,” Jesse’s pupils were as
big as they could get. “I mean, damn, I heard people say that before, but I
never seen anybody 
do
 it.”

Ignoring the human’s comment, Jates turned away
so he wouldn’t show the pain on his face, he feared he had torn muscles and
eyeclicked to damp down the painkillers the suit was injecting into him, he
couldn’t afford the brain fuzziness that the painkillers sometimes caused. “My
rifle is broken,” he explained as he picked up the Kristang weapon.

“Uh, yeah,” Jesse carefully poked his head
around the missing door to see the bloody carnage in the truck’s cab. What was
left of the missile launcher box had stopped shaking from explosions, and the
flickering haze of the energy shield was gone, a fact Jesse verified by looking
up at the shield projector dome above the cab. The dome was peppered by
shrapnel, and sparks arced inside it. “Uh, maybe we should get away from here,
in case this thing’s powercells blow.”

“Good,” Jates gasped, falling to his knees,
“idea.”

“Hey. Hey, man. Surgun, you Ok?”

“I could,” Jates swallowed his pride, “use
assistance.”

“Sure thing,” Jesse knew how much that admission
must have cost the proud warrior. “Up you go,” he said, not knowing what else
to say. Jates put an arm around Jesse’s shoulders and Jesse carefully stood up
to his full height then they took slow steps forward.

“I feel like I got hit by that truck,” Jates
groaned.

“If’n it makes you feel any better,” the
after-effect of combat making Jesse’s accent thicker than molasses in January
as his grandpappy would say, “the other guy looks a 
lot
 worse. Hey, uh,” he eyeclicked to open the taclink as they
shuffled away from the truck quickly as possible. “Colonel Perkins, that truck
is out of action, you copy? Colonel?” He shared a frightened look with Jates.
“Colonel? Anyone?”

 

Irene had her full concentration simply on not
crashing, as the big and awkward Dodo zoomed sickeningly between and just above
buildings. One engine had been ejected by blowing explosive bolts where its pylon
connected to the hull, the other engine was severely overheated, the rear
control surfaces were sluggish from battle damage, the aft point-defense maser
turret was still rebooting and they had an unknown number of missiles on their
tail. None of which Irene could pay attention to at the moment, she had to
focus on the most basic rule of aviation: 
fly
the aircraft
. Everything else could and would have to wait or be handled by
someone else, until Irene could get the dropship flying steady and not wobbling
as if about to auger into the ground at any second. The asymmetric thrust from
the one remaining engine was trying to flip the clumsy craft on its back.

Derek forced himself to tear his eyes away from the
cockpit display windows, to ignore the sight of the ground that was 
right there
 as the dropship skidded
across the sky tilted on its side. He poured emergency coolant into the
overheated engine, wasting hours of precious coolant in seconds and wishing the
controls didn’t keep warning him of the totally obvious dangers. 
Yes
, I know we are missing an engine,
thank you very much you 
piece of shit
.
The missile threat warning hooting annoyingly in his ear was also unnecessary.

“Ok Ok Ok,” Irene felt her stomach muscles
unclench painfully as the big dropship steadied at a twelve degree angle to the
port side and she was able to gain altitude in a controlled manner.

“Not Ok!” Derek couldn’t wait any longer for the
balky topside aft maser turret to make up its mind and finish rebooting. The
damned thing was stuck somewhere in its cycle, he guessed some physical
component had been damaged and the point-defense system was waiting for a reply
that would never happen. “Yaw starboard thirty degrees then roll us another ten
degrees to port.”

Without asking why, Irene gently slewed the ship
thirty degrees to the right without banking, in a cringe-inducingly
un-aerodynamic maneuver. When the ship’s nose was pointed in the designated
direction, she rolled it even more to the left and held the course straight.
“Doing it! Why?”

“Topside aft PDS is offline, we need the belly
cannon tracking inbounds,” Derek responded without looking up from his console.
“Belly PDS has targets!”

The maser turret on the underside of the ship
reacted immediately when the bulk of the craft was no longer masking its line
of sight to the four inbound missiles. The maser exciters got photons lined up
coherently and pulses of microwave energy lanced out in coordination with the
forward topside turret, bracketing the closest missile and getting closer with
each shot. With two masers working together quicker than the blink of an eye,
the random side-to-side and up-and-down evasive jinking of the missile had to
become less random to avoid running into a destructive beam. In less than a
quarter second, the dropship’s point defense system identified a pattern in the
missile’s attempts to evade being effectively targeted, and the next shot from
the topside cannon was aimed slightly to the right and below the missile.

The lead missile flew directly into the beam and
its warhead exploded.

Having one less missile tracking them was great
for the three humans and one Jeraptha inside the dropship. The premature
detonation of the warhead meant no shrapnel could catch the accelerating craft,
and its PDS automatically switched focus to the second missile.

And was confused for a crucial four tenths of a
second. The downside to the first missile exploding was that the Kristang
weapons designers were not stupid, nor were they inexperienced at air combat.
When the missile was hit by a maser beam, its tiny brain had a nanosecond to
assess whether the hit was fatal, and the answer was yes and then 
hell
 yes as the propulsion motor began
to break up from the maser energy. The second question was whether the missile
was close enough to try for a proximity kill and the answer was, sadly, no. So
the missile’s last act of defiance was to detonate its warhead in chaff mode,
the explosive charge in a wide disc parallel to its direction of flight.
Burning hot particles created a cloud that scorched the air, filled the area
with powerful static and temporarily blocked the dropship’s view of the second
missile.

The second missile also was smart, it knew what
the first missile had done and why, and even before it decrypted the final
burst transmission from the doomed weapon, the second missile fired thrusters
to slow itself and linger in the shadow of the cloud another hundredth of a
second before turning violently to the left and down. The second missile also
had analyzed the target’s defensive capability and tendencies and identified what
it hoped was a weakness, so it intended to approach from a direction where only
one maser turret could get a line of sight view.

Derek recognized the danger even before the red
light flashed on his console. “We lost target lock! We lost it!” The predictive
software was warning the missile would impact in three seconds or less, and the
point defense system still was searching the sky for that second missile. The
display held three fuzzy pink objects that might be possible threats, with
confidence too low for the PD cannons to fire. Even as Derek’s brain formed the
thought 
to hell with that 
and his
fingers reached to override the PDS safeties so the damned maser turrets could
fire at 
something
, he knew anything
he did would be too late.

“Is there-” Irene asked to inquire if there was
something she should be doing, 
could

be doing, when the Dodo rocked and even more warning lights flared on the
consoles. They had been struck from behind, thank God it was a proximity blast
and not a direct hit. The aft belly turret was offline and most systems behind
the seventeenth structural frame were glitching, dead, or dead and on fire.

That wasn’t right. Zingers could shape their
proximity warheads to direct the shrapnel in a cone toward the target. There
should be a 
lot
 more damage, the tail
should be shredded. “You hit the-”

“Thank you, Tutula!” Derek interrupted the
pilot.

 

“Welcome,” the Verd-Kris woman replied tersely,
having no time to chat as she flipped her relatively nimble fighter-gunship
into a tight turn. Normally, bleeding off airspeed in combat is a sure-fire
recipe for disaster but she had no choice. With the other dropship missing an
engine, trailing fire as random parts broke away and unable to defend itself
unless its two forward point-defense turrets got lucky, she had to cover it
with her own cannons and that meant flying slow and close. The idea of flying straight
at the missiles, and trying to shoot them with her more powerful but
slow-reacting maser cannons was an idiotic scheme that would have washed her
out of flight training before she could get herself killed. Being smart meant
tucking her ship in behind the crippled dropship, trying to anticipate its
movements and trusting her Vulture’s point-defense system to do its job. Her
fighter had energy shields, but in flight they were useful only against
directed-energy weapons like maser and particle beams. Against missiles, unless
she got very lucky by spoofing the enemy guidance systems at long range, it was
kill or be killed, and even her enhanced reactions were far too slow to track
an incoming missile.

A glance at the point-defense system monitor
showed it was fully capable and ready for more action after having destroyed
the second missile before it could hit Perkin’s ship. Now it was a matter of
one computer system matching against another. The missiles had the advantage of
being small, stealthy and ferociously maneuverable, and of tracking a large and
slow-moving target. The dropship’s maser cannons had the advantage of a stable
platform to shoot from, their beams traveling at the speed of light and being
able to cycle a kill shot every three tenths of a second.

Tutula hated relying on the cold logic of automated
systems for her survival.

 

The two remaining missiles in flight had no
discomfort about relying on logic, as they had not been programmed to
experience comfort, discomfort or any other emotions. They
 had
 been expertly programmed to kill and to use cold, hard logic
to accomplish that. Both missiles analyzed the situation and when one missile
made a suggestion that would require the sacrifice of the other, the suicidal
missile did not hesitate. Instantly, the two separated with one missile
continuing to track the smaller target and jink toward it to evade maser fire,
while the other missile dove down and went wide to kill the crippled target.
The snap assessment had been that their best chance to make a kill was to hit
the crippled ship rather than the nimble fighter-gunship. If the suicidal
missile could hit the fighter airspace craft that would be great, but its purpose
was to draw defensive fire away from its companion.

The suicidal missile’s brain recorded a maser
beam near-miss that was too close and it calculated a seventy six percent
chance a maser would score a direct hit before it got close enough for even a
proximity kill, so without any regret it detonated its warhead in a
shape-charge directed at the fighter craft ahead of it.

 

Tutula had no time for rejoicing and no cause
for celebration when the warhead blew by itself. Her fighter was caught in the
shockwave and shrapnel pinged off the hull, making the defensive shield flare
and fuzzing the view of the point-defense sensors. The system attempted to lock
onto the single remaining missile, cycling through several engagement solutions
in nanoseconds before concluding it could not be confident of an intercept
before the missile struck the crippled Dodo dropship. It signaled that bad news
to the pilot by flashing an orange light on a console.

When Tutula saw the blinking light representing
the depressing analysis of her point-defense system, she did not shout a
useless warning. The missile was approaching from below and behind the other
dropship, the vulnerable Dodo carrying the mission commander and the Jeraptha
who was needed to extract data from the research core. The data that was needed
to save the lives of humans on the planet they called Paradise, and more
importantly, to safeguard the lives of Ruhar on that planet and beyond. Saving
lives was why she dedicated her life toward training hard to qualify for star
duty. Saving lives was really only a secondary objective but at the moment,
saving the lives aboard the other dropship aligned perfectly with her primary
mission.

Tutula kicked the throttles to maximum and
pushed the nose down, straight into the path of the missile.

 

If the missile was startled by the good fortune
of scoring a direct impact on a fighter-gunship rather than an already damaged
target, it made no comment as it altered course slightly. At that angle, it
could not have hit the larger dropship anyway, so it pushed through the Vulture’s
ineffective energy shield, plunging through the lightly-armored skin above the
portside wing and shattering a maser cannon before it struck something solid
enough to set off its warhead.

 

“Holy, holy 
shit
,”
Derek gulped, his throat constricting so he choked on the words. “Get us out of
here, on the deck.”

“Missile status?” Perkins asked as Irene dipped
the nose and built up airspeed, confused by what her tactical display was
showing her.

“No birds in the air.” Derek reported with an
anguished look shared between the pilots.

“We got it?” Perkins asked with a shudder of
relief, unaware she had been holding her breath.

“No, Ma’am,” Irene responded for Derek, who was
badly shaken and focusing his attention on keeping their one engine running.
“Tutula flew right into the path of that last missile. She saved us, Ma’am.”

“I didn’t,” Perkins blinked away tears that
suddenly formed, angry at herself for weakness in combat and for not
understanding what the Verd-Kris pilot had done. “Can we-”

She was interrupted by a call over the taclink.
“Colonel Perkins, that truck is out of action, you copy? Colonel? Colonel?
Anyone?”

The interruption brought her back to focus. She
could mourn later. “Sergeant Colter, what is your status?”

“We busted that truck up good,” Jesse’s thick accent
had toned down a bit as his heart rate slowed. “Shauna and Dave are guarding
the sensor transmitter. We’re Ok down here, uh, Surgun Jates took a pounding-”

“I am fully effective.” Jates’ protested.
“Colonel Perkins, I suggest my team search the base for opposition before you
land, can you provide air support?”

“
Negative

on the air support,” Perkins did not elaborate. “Jates, secure the transmitter
ASAP and clear the area around the research compound, we can land between
buildings there.”

If Jates had a bad feeling about why no air
support was available, he did not say anything.

 

The ground team first sprayed a fast-setting
foam around the transmitter then partly filled in the crater to bury it, placing
the ceramic block on top. The four then rushed over to the research base and
cleared the compound building by building as quickly as they could, a task
simplified by the fact the research section only contained three buildings.
When Jates gave the all-clear, the big dropship came in low from the north,
tucking itself between two buildings and awkwardly set down in a choking cloud
of dust. The back ramp was already open, Arlon Dahl stepping nimbly out on his
four legs as the craft settled on its landing skids. Perkins was right behind
the Jeraptha. “Surgun Jates-”

“I already know,” he replied stiffly.

“I’m sorry. She sacrificed herself to save us,
to save the lives on Paradise.”

“Excuse me, Colonel Perkins, but that is not why
Tutula acted, not why I am here. We serve the Ruhar to save our 
own
 people from slavery, to rescue our
culture from extinction. I think in that way, my people and yours have
something very important in common.”

To the surprise of Emily Perkins, the hulking
alien in the dirty and scratched skinsuit offered her a fist bump. While that
was not proper military protocol, it was a heartfelt gesture and she graciously
accepted. “Surgun Jates, can you escort Arlon Dahl to the research core?
Jarrett, go with them,” she added without waiting for Jates to reply. “Czajka,
Colter, go see what those asshole Keepers are doing, I don’t want any
interference from them.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER NINETEEN
Dave jogged warily over to where the ‘control
group’ of humans was being kept. With Jates and Dahl down in the bunker to
access the research lab’s computers and Shauna providing cover for the Jeraptha,
Perkins had ordered Dave and Jesse to check out the ruined and smoking dropship
hangar to assure there weren’t any more surprises waiting for the assault team,
then to make contact with the Keepers. Secretly, he had been hoping that entire
group of assholes had been killed during the attack so they wouldn’t be his
problem, but no such luck. The control group was being held in a fenced area
separated from the rest of the base by a wide, flat open stretch of ground and
as he ran across it, Dave saw the open ground had been bulldozed flat. The
Kristang had created a killing ground between their base and where the Keepers
were kept, that told him just how much the Keepers were valued and trusted.
“Jesse, man, check it out,” Dave pointed with his rifle as he approached the
fence. “That’s some serious security.”

The Keepers were surrounded not only by a fence
with clouds of razor wire in top, the fence was a double layer, with a
spike-filled trench separating the fences by four meters. Jesse halted, bent
down to pick up a stone, and tossed it at the outer fence. There was a shower
of sparks and the stone was thrown back. “That fence must have an independent
power source. Hell, we need to turn that off.”

The only way in was a road that spanned the
trench, with gates in the fence. Inside the fence, Keepers were peeking out
from the side of the three buildings in the center, presumably where the
control group lived. One of the buildings was nothing more than a prefab metal
hut for storing something, the other two had windows with people’s faces
visible. With them wearing Ruhar skinsuits and their helmets on, there was no
way for the Keepers to know the base had not been assaulted by Ruhar. Even
Surgun Jates wore Ruhar flexible armor, so there was no way to see he was
Kristang. And clearly, their dropship was a Ruhar craft. “I don’t know how to
turn off the electricity, but I 
do

know how to open these gates,” Dave flicked off his rifle’s safety, took aim,
and fired a maser beam at the top hinge of the outer gate. Jesse joined him,
working on the lower hinge, and soon the gate sagged and crashed to the ground.
Dave sliced away power cables and kicked a stone at the gate with his boot, the
stone clattered and bounced off the gate but there were no sparks. Being
careful not to touch the live fence on either side, they dragged the gate out
of the way, and repeated the procedure with the inner gate, kicking it inside
the compound with their power-assisted legs.

“Come on out, y’all!” Jesse called out,
irritated with the Keepers for hanging back. Didn’t those dumbasses know that
if the attackers wanted them dead, the dropship could have strafed the compound
and killed every one of them? “Come out, ya bunch of cowards!”

At one side of a barracks there was an animated
conversation, with raised voices and a scuffle. One of the people broke free
and ran toward the two suited figures, then stopped, looked behind himself, and
continued walking forward slowly. Six other people hurried forward and caught
up to him, one put a hand on the lead guy’s shoulder but he shook it off.

Most of the Keepers were wearing baseball caps
and bush hats against the bright morning sunlight, with others protecting their
heads with rags wrapped around their skulls. All of them were dressed in
relatively new if dirty clothing, the hats still had visible ‘UNEF’ logos
although most of the logos had been defaced in some way. Dave and Jesse looked
at each other. Where had the Keepers gotten new gear? The last time either of
them saw a UNEF baseball cap, the blue material had faded to a light gray. And
boots! All the Keepers were wearing nice boots that hadn’t been patched and
mended half a dozen times.

“Hello,” the lead guy spoke, holding up one hand
and taking his cap off with the other.

“What the f- 
Eric
?”
Jesse exclaimed.

“Jesus,” Dave gasped, astonished. “Eric
Koblenz?”

The guy shaded his eyes, but could not see the
faces inside the opaque helmets. Dave and Jesse ordered their faceplates to go
clear, and Eric’s eyes bulged. “
Ski
? 
Cornpone
? What the hell, what, how are 
you
 here?” He sputtered.

“That’s Dave and Jesse to you, asshole,” Dave
growled. Even at tiny Fort Rakovsky, they had not liked that jerk referring to
them by nicknames.

“Hell, 
you

call us Sergeants Colter and Czajka,” Jesse corrected his friend, and tapped
the US Army chevron-and-rocker symbol on his shoulders.

“Sergeants?” Eric looked closer and saw the
familiar rank symbols. He should have noticed that right away, those were not
Ruhar insignia! “What are you doing here? In hamster armor?”

“We’ll ask the questions here,” Dave snapped.
“We’re part of a Ruhar task force now,” he fibbed. Before he could brag like he
greatly wanted to, Eric interrupted.

“Guys, please, you have to get me out of here!
Please!” His eyes were pleading, his hands held out in supplication. “The
lizards lied to us, I think they used us for medical experiments, we were-”

“Yeah, no shit, Sherlock,” Jesse cut him off.
“Y’all were brought here as guinea pigs, the lizards made a bioweapon to use
against our people on Paradise. And you all were part of it.”

“We didn’t know!” Eric protested. “They only
told us-”

“Don’t listen to their lies,” a man behind Eric
growled as he reached out to pull the now-reluctant Keeper backwards, but Eric
was not going for that shit, not anymore. His elbow shot back and cracked the
man in the face, breaking his nose and sending a spray of blood to splatter
Eric. Two others stepped in, though hesitantly and without enthusiasm. Eric
punched one of them and they backed off, holding up their hands to signal they
were not participating in this fight.

Then Eric went crazy. The man whose nose he had
broken was on the ground, rolling to his feet when a savage kick to the ribs
from Eric’s boot knocked him back down. Seeing a red haze of anger in his
vision, Eric Koblenz kicked the man over and over. “Don’t you 
ever
 touch me again you son of a bitch!
I’m sick, sick of your Goddamned lies. Jesus!” He aimed a particularly savage kick
at the man’s bloody face. “You made me betray my friends, you fucking piece of 
shit
!”

“Whoa! Whoa, settle down there, Koblenz,” Jesse
surprised himself by stepping forward and restraining the enraged former
soldier. For a second, Jesse thought Eric would lash out at him, but the man
collapsed to his knees, sobbing. “Uh, Ski,” Jesse had no idea what to do. “A
little help here?”

Dave gestured with his rifle to move the others
back. He half turned his back on the injured man who was lying prone, but the
enhanced peripheral vision of his helmet alerted him to danger when the
bloodied man pulled a fabric-wrapped shiv from a pocket and lunged at Eric.
Reflexively, Dave shot the would-be assailant in the gut with a maser beam, his
powered suit legs lifting him up and backwards clear of the man’s reach.

“Holy sh-” Jesse pulled Eric out of the way, his
power-assisted arm sending Eric rolling across the dusty ground. Harder than he
intended, Jesse stomped on the assailant’s knife hand, hearing and feeling
bones crunch.

“Ah!” The would-be assailant groaned. “Shit that
hurts, you Goddamn hamster lover!”

“You gonna settle down and cooperate?” Jesse
asked with his rifle muzzle pointed straight at the asshole’s broken nose.

“Fuck you, traitor,” the man spat blood on Jesse’s
legs.

“Wrong answer.” Jesse squeezed the trigger,
having selected the under-mounted railgun. An explosive-tipped flechette dart
sped out, not having time to deploy its guidance fins before burying itself in
the man’s skull and exploding. Jesse wiped blood and gore off his helmet,
kicking the headless body away in disgust. He turned to the shocked faces of
the crowd that had assembled around them. “Anyone else got smartass remarks
you want to try on me? No? Because this counter,” he turned the rifle so the
crowd could see the display on top of his rifle, “says I got nineteen more
explosive darts in the magazine. Plus, like, a hundred maser shots left in the
powercell.”

“Colter! Czajka!” Perkins’ voice came over their
helmet speakers. “I heard weapons fire, you both Ok?”

“We’re fine, Colonel,” Dave replied. “We got
some Keepers here who are having second thoughts about their loyalty to the
lizards.”

“They giving you trouble?”

“No, Ma’am, it’s the idiots who are 
not
 having second thoughts who are
causing a ruckus. There’s one less of them now.”

“Understood. Czajka? Be careful, especially of
the ones who want out. This will be the second time they’ve changed sides, they
might be looking for a convenient opportunity to flip loyalties again.”

“Copy that. Colonel? One of the guys who regrets
coming here is a guy Jesse and I knew way back from our farm village in
Lemuria. What are the odds, right?”

“You trust him?”

“Not as far as I could throw him,” Dave snorted,
then remembered he was wearing an advanced-technology power-assisted skinsuit.
“Throw him on my own, I mean. He was an asshole back then, but Jesse and I
think this guy joined the Keepers because he was stupid, and he listened to the
wrong people.”

“Be careful anyway.”

“I think the Headless Horseman here,” Dave
looked down so Perkins could see the shattered body through his helmet camera,
“is discouraging any morons who are feeling adventurous.”

 

“Ma’am!” Jesse called out, jogging out of the Keeper
compound, waving something in one hand. “Colonel, look! They’ve got UNEF ration
packs! Lots of them! There’s a whole building full of human food and uniforms
and all kinds of UNEF stuff, inside the fence where that control group is
living.”

“MREs?” Perkins caught the package Jesse tossed
to her. “Beef stroganoff?” Beef? She had not eaten beef, real beef, in years.
The cultured, lab-grown beef substitute provided by the Ruhar as an experiment
was tasty if a bit bland, and still in short supply. “Huh,” she read the label.
“This is still good, it hasn’t expired yet.”

“I don’t know if it was ‘
good
’ when it was fresh, Ma’am, but they’ve got crates of MREs and
other rations in one of the buildings here,” he jerked a thumb over one shoulder
behind him. Dave was back making sure the Keepers didn’t do anything stupid, to
the Mavericks or to themselves, while Jesse reported to Perkins. “The Goddamned
lizards were holding out on us, and the dumb Keepers here were eating like
kings compared to us on Paradise. Hell, I half starved on corn and taters in
Lemuria, and the lizards probably had warehouses, entire starships, full of
supplies.”

“When the hamsters took Paradise back, whatever
human food the Kristang were shipping to Paradise might have gotten dumped
here,” Perkins speculated.

Jesse shook his head once angrily. “No way. We
stopped getting supplies from Earth 
before

the hamsters took the planet back. That’s why Bishop had the cushy job of
planting potatoes, remember?”

Perkins did remember that time, but her memories
were different. “We were still getting supplies shipped in from home back then,
at a lower rate but steady. HQ slow-rolled distribution to the field because
they wanted to build up a stockpile to get us through lean times.”

“
HQ

was holding out on us?”

“They weren’t holding out, Colter. The lizards
had warned us we needed to become self-sufficient, they were tired of footing
the bill for shipping everything we needed all the way from Earth. Even before
the Ruhar arrived to retake the planet, the lizards told us the Force would not
be going straight back to Earth, even after we got the last hamster off the
planet. Our guess back then was the White Wind clan planned to pimp us out
again to another clan.”

“Another evac op?”

“No,” Perkins wanted to spit but couldn’t inside
her sealed-up helmet. “HQ figured we most likely would be used as cannon fodder
in battles between clans.”

“Oh, hell. Damn, so, we got lucky when the
hamster fleet showed up. Can we bring ration packs back with us?”

Perkins looked at the dropship, sitting with its
back ramp open. “Any supplies we take from here may be contaminated, but we’ll
need to scrub the inside of the dropship anyway before we can take these suits
off. All right, Colter, there’s plenty of space in storage lockers aboard the
dropship, cram in whatever you can fit. Do us a favor, if you see any Chinese
ration packs that are labelled something like ‘Pickled Herring’, leave them and
take something else.”

“I can’t read Chinese,” Jesse wasn’t sure if his
CO was joking or not.

Perkins tapped her visor. “Your helmet
translator can.”

“Oh, yeah, sorry.” Jesse’s face turned red
inside his helmet.

“Take Jarrett with you, she told me she’s not
being much help to Jates and he doesn’t need anyone to cover him, that research
bunker is empty.”

“Yes, Ma’am. Shauna, come on up here. We’ve got
work to do, it’s dinner time!”

 

“We have 
trouble
!”
Jates shouted while running out of the underground bunker, waving a tablet at
Perkins.

“What? A ship jumped in?” She shuddered as a jolt
of fear ran up her spine. Her body was just coming down off the adrenaline high
of combat, now she felt her heart racing again. Although, her mind flashed,
why? If an enemy ship was now above them, there was absolutely nothing she
could do about it.

“No. Worse.”

“Worse? What the hell could be-”

Jates cut her off. “Dahl just found out this
base is programmed to self-destruct, the crew must have activated that sequence
before the last one of them died.”

“Ok, shit,” she glanced quickly around. They had
one dropship, no motorized vehicles and no spare skinsuits that could speed a
person’s escape. “Did you get the data we need?”

Jates held up something that looked like a shiny
metallic sphere the size of a softball. “This is the memory core, Dahl says we
can access it through dropship computers. Colonel, we have the keys to decrypt
the data, but there were not any samples of the pathogen in the research lab.
The researchers took everything with them, or they destroyed all their samples
before they left.”

“Damn it. Could we, or the Ruhar, synthesize the
pathogen from the data you retrieved?”

“I do not know, we will need to decrypt all the
data first. Colonel, I do know we must leave here immediately.”

“We need to get these idiot Keepers moving,
then. They can head toward-”

“Colonel Perkins, there is no time for anyone to

walk
 out to a safe distance. Under
the base is a multi-megaton atomic-compression device, it must have been
provided by the Thuranin or possibly the Bosphuraq. The warrior caste wishes to
erase all signs of their illegal activity here.”

“A 
nuke
?
That’s against The Rules,” she meant the Rules of Engagement enforced by the
two senior species in the endless war, rules intended to prevent lesser beings
from contaminating life-sustaining biospheres.

“Biological warfare is also a violation of the
rules, but that pathogen will be used against a populated world with a healthy
biosphere. Technically, atomic compression devices are not considered ‘nukes’
because they do not create long-lasting radioactive fallout. Colonel, regarding
The Rules, setting off a single nuclear device here would probably not provoke
a reaction, because one such weapon would not significantly damage a world that
is already doomed. The variable star will render this planet uninhabitable within
the next three thousand years.”

“Oh, hell. How big an explosion, and how much
time to we have? Scratch that, is there any way we can shut it down?”

“No to your final question, the device is buried
in a hardened canister and any unauthorized attempt to access the canister will
cause immediate detonation. The self-destruct mechanism is simple and rugged,
Dahl says he does not know any way to hack into it. Once the mechanism was
activated, it cuts itself off from further instructions.”

“God
damn

it!”

“To answer your other question, the device is
powerful enough to obliterate everything in this valley, we need to be behind
that ridge,” he pointed to the mountain peaks that rimmed the bowl-shaped
valley, “when the device explodes in,” he checked his tablet. “Twelve minutes
and forty nine seconds.”

“Striebich!” Perkins roared and twirled one
finger over her head in a ‘spin up’ motion the former Blackhawk pilot knew
well. “We are 
LEE-aving
!”

Except they couldn’t.

“Ma’am,” Irene’s hands shook from emotion as she
explained the problem in a whisper. “We can’t take all these people with us.
They won’t all fit, and with the ship carrying that much mass,” she shot a
fearful look at the lowest point of the surrounding ridge, “we won’t clear the
ridge. I’m sorry, we only have one engine to provide power. We 
can’t
 take all these people,” her eyes
darted to the cluster of Keepers who had been herded together.

“Striebich, we are 
not
 leaving any humans to die here, you got that? Strip this thing
of anything you can toss out the door fast, and we will make room.”

“Colonel,” Derek pled his case. “She’s right.
There simply is not enough space inside the cabin for all these people.” He
hoped their commanding officer did not make a foolish request like strapping
people to the Dodo’s stubby wings. “If we stack people in on top of each other,
we can,” he ran a quick estimate in his head, “fit most of them? We would still
be leaving a dozen or more.”

“The cabin,” Perkins appraised the dropship’s
cramped interior, designed to hold only fourteen troops. “Wait, you’re
Winchester on missiles?”

“Yes, we launched our full weapons load in the
raid,” Derek answered warily.

“Can we put people in the missile bays, if they
use oxygen masks?”

“I wouldn’t recommend that,” Derek replied as he
shared an alarmed look with Irene.

“Screw the recommendation, can we do it?”

“We can try,” Irene agreed quickly, hoping to
end the discussion before Perkins thought up an even worse idea. “Jarrett,
Colter, Czajka! We need to strip out the cabin seats 
now
!”

 

They got five very frightened people stuffed
into each of the two empty missile bays, by the simple expedient of explaining
their choice was a few minutes of discomfort, or dying in a nuclear fireball.
Three Keepers still refused the evac orders, protesting that they remained
loyal to the Kristang and would not cooperate with their supposed rescuers.
Perkins ended that rebellion with a rifle butt to the face of one protester,
ordering his unconscious form dropped unceremoniously on the bottom of the pile
in the cabin.

“Seriously?” Shauna cocked her head at one
still-protesting asshole. “I would be 
more

than happy to shoot you right now.”

“There is no nuke,” the asshole spat at her, “unless

you
 planted it to cover evidence of
your attack on 
our
 allies, you
traitorous bitch.”

“Seven minutes!” Irene screamed through the
dropship’s doorway. “We need to go 
now
.”

“
Bitch
?”
Shauna’s grip tightened on her rifle. “You might-”

The argument ended abruptly when Jesse casually
shot a maser beam through the protestor’s right thigh, then when the Keeper
slumped to the ground, kicked him hard under the chin. “Grab an arm, we’ll drag
Sleeping Beauty here into the ship,” he ordered and began pulling the
unconscious asshole up the ramp, which was beginning to cycle closed. Asshole’s
head lolled to the side, but as the maser had cauterized the leg wound, there
was little blood. Shauna grabbed the other arm and they tumbled inside, rolling
the idiot into one of the last spaces available and sitting on top of him as
there was no other place to go with the closing ramp squashing them together.

“
Nobody

calls me a bitch,” Shauna sat down on the protestor, not making any effort to
be gentle.

“You think 
that’s

important right now?” Jesse asked as he safed his rifle and looked for
something to hang onto. The pilots had the dropship off the ground and wobbling
as it struggled to gain altitude on one engine.

 

“Ohhhhh, this is not good,” Irene gritted her
teeth. “Colonel, I don’t know about this.” The Kristang research base was in a
high mountain valley on a planet with a thin atmosphere, and the lowest point
of the ridge around them was over twenty two thousand feet high. If both
engines had been healthy, the dropship could have easily made it into orbit
even overloaded as it was. With only a single damaged engine generating less
than half its normal peak power, the craft was struggling to climb at all.
Ruhar dropships had supplemental booster packs that could be installed under
the wings, to provide a one-time surge of thrust for heavy-weight takeoffs, but
none of those packs had been brought down to the planet. Irene would not have
brought them into combat anyway, as having volatile booster packs slung under
the wings was just asking for trouble in a situation where the dropship had
been shot at. “We’re at eighteen thousand and we can barely maintain that.”

“Can we circle back, fly a longer route to gain
altitude?” Perkins suggested.

“Distance won’t help, Ma’am,” Irene told herself
to be patient with their non-pilot commander. “It’s simple math, we’re too
heavy for the power available.” She kept the ‘I told you so’ tone out of her
voice but that wasn’t easy. “Part of the problem is there’s a strong wind coming
from the direction of the gap we’re trying to fly through, it’s creating a
downdraft on this side of the ridge. That gap is the lowest point on this side
of the rim, next low point is over a thousand feet higher.”

“We don’t have time anyway to change course at
this point,” Derek warned.

Perkins debated an idea she hated. She had
stubbornly insisted on taking every single person with them, and now her
refusal to consider immovable facts might kill them all. In a flash, she
remembered allowing her team to stuff lockers full of food packages, and she
had not seen MREs among the seats and other gear stripped out of the ship.
“Could we lighten our load?”

“Not at this point, Ma’am,” Irene explained.
“Opening a ramp would spoil our aerodynamics and cause us to drop. By the time
we got the ramp closed and climbed, it would be too late. I’m sorry, I don’t
see we have any good options,” she declared as her eyes flitted rapidly across
the display in front of her. Maybe below them was a canyon or an arm of a
mountain they could land behind and shelter from the nuclear shockwave?

“I’m going to try something,” Derek announced as
he flipped a switch to take command. “My aircraft.”

“
What

are you doing?” Irene’s voice was unsteady as a sudden jolt hit the airspace
craft. The jolt caused her stomach to do flipflops, they were dropping.

“The only thing I can think of,” Derek didn’t
take his eyes off the instruments. With one hand, he was playing with the
throttle.

“Not this! Whatever you’re doing, it’s not
working.”

“The other thing had 
no
 chance,” Derek replied evenly. “I’m watching the fan blade
pitch, you call out the climb rate indicator?”

Irene glared at the other pilot but kept one eye
on the instruments. Ruhar airspace craft did not have the ability for pilots to
manually adjust the pitch of the engine fan blades, a feature both humans found
limiting and annoying. Instead, the flight computer set the angle at which the
turbine fan blades bit into the air, based on speed and power settings. To Irene’s
amazement, Derek’s action of reducing throttle had the effect of deepening the
pitch, and she watched fearfully as the altimeter steadied, then began slowly
increasing. She sucked in a breath, unwilling to speak lest she jinx their
temporary good luck. “We 
are

climbing.” When the rate of climb reached seven hundred feet per minute, she
announced that fact. “And now eight fifty per minute. Rate of increase is
slowing, but, Derek, how did you know?”

“Something I read in a book about aviation in
World War Two, when they were still figuring out the principles of
aerodynamics. I knew the computer adjusts this ship’s blade pitch based on
power settings, so I hoped reducing power would drop our airspeed and make the
blades take a bigger bite of air to compensate. We did lose airspeed, but we
don’t give a shit about that now, we’re climbing at our best velocity and
that’s the best we can do. Are we going to clear the ridge in time?”

Irene ran a quick estimate. “With forty seconds
to spare, at this rate.”

“Outstanding,” Perkins exhaled in relief behind
them. Perhaps her stubbornness had not killed them. This time. That was a
lesson she needed to remember.

They cleared the ridge, having to battle strong
and gusty winds as they approached and flew through the gap. On the other side,
Derek dipped the nose and advanced the throttles, trading altitude for airspeed
in an effort to put distance between them and the coming shockwave. He dove and
turned gently to the right, getting clear of the gap behind them for that is where
the shockwave would come through first and with the most energy.

“Four seconds,” Irene called out, and polarized
all the portholes to avoid people being blinded. “Two, one.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY
 Perkins
watched their sole surviving Verd-Kris walk away to be alone, stopping just
under the edge of the stealth netting that covered their small camp. Surgun Jates
had been stoic about the death of Tutula, saying he would mourn her properly at
the appropriate time, in the appropriate manner. Several times, Perkins had
seen the hulking lizard sitting away from the camp by himself, staring off into
the sun or staring at nothing. Sometimes he pretended to be exercising or
practicing a form of martial arts particular to the Kristang, even he could not
mask how distracted he was. Perkins felt sympathy for the Surgun, knowing it
was odd for her to empathize with a member of a species who might have
exterminated human life on Earth. Jates, she had to remind herself, was 
not
 her enemy. They fought the same enemy,
and where Jates sought to transform Kristang society, while Perkins would be
happy to have the whole lot of them drop dead, they fought together.
Surprisingly, Emily Perkins found herself 
trusting

Surgun Jates, certainly trusting him more than she trusted most of the Ruhar
cadets other than Nert.

Ernt Dahl came out of the dropship, carrying a
tablet, with his antennas drooping. “I have not yet completed a review of the
data files,” the Jeraptha turned toward her and fortunately did not attempt to
smile, for that expression still looked creepy to Perkins despite knowing its
intention.

“When do you-”

“However, I believe I have enough information to
present a preliminary conclusion,” he paused to judge the human’s reaction to
the translated words.

Perkins nodded in exaggerated fashion so there
would not be any interspecies miscommunication. “I was an intelligence analyst,
I know the risks of trusting preliminary data.”

“Good. Then, you will understand my conclusions
may change. Colonel, so far, the data I have reviewed contains detailed notes
of the testing conducted on human and Ruhar subjects. Unfortunately, all the
Ruhar subjects died as a result of the testing, for the pathogen is even more
lethally effective in Ruhar than in your own people. Do not think me harsh when
I say that is not surprising; the pathogen’s target is Ruhar, while humans are
primarily carriers. The Ruhar were brought here as prisoners of war. Their
prisoner status did
 not
 allow the
Kristang to use them as research subjects to develop a weapon against their own
people.”

“Oh, hell.”

“Colonel, if it is any consolation to the
families and friends of the dead, I have a list of their names, human and
Ruhar. Their loved ones will at least know what happened to them. Also, records
are clear these Ruhar did not cooperate in the testing, they did not know they
were part of a test until it was too late. Once it became clear they had become
infected with an experimental bioweapon, three of the Ruhar killed themselves
to deny valid test results to the enemy,” Ernt noted with a tone of admiration.
“Truly, they were brave warriors, I would have been pleased to serve by their
side.

“What of the remaining Ruhar? How many of them
were in the test?”

“There were twenty three in the test, which was
conducted in three phases with the three groups isolated and unaware of each
other. After three of eight Ruhar in the first group killed themselves and
three others attempted suicide, the Kristang took steps to ensure future test
subjects could not end their own lives prematurely. Colonel, I am sorry to
inform you of the deaths of other sentient beings in this cruel test, but that
is not the worst information I have to tell you. It appears that the Kristang
who remained behind here were not entirely trusted by their leaders. The data
we recovered has, as I said, extensive reports of the test results. The data
does 
not
 include a chemical analysis
of the pathogen components, nor instructions on how to synthesize any part of
the bioweapon. We also did not recover samples or the pathogen or precursor
elements. We know what the pathogen does and how it works. We do not have
enough information to identify it in either humans or Ruhar.”

“Shit! Damn it! The whole damned raid was for
nothing?”

“Not 
nothing
,
for this data could prove to be useful to Ruhar bioweapons specialists, it does
contain details of how the disease progresses in both human and Ruhar, and how
the pathogen is spread. The bad news is the infectious components are airborne,
can be spread by skin contact or through water, and can remain infectious for
eight days on porous surfaces. The best way for Ruhar to protect themselves is
by enforcing a strict quarantine of the human population on Pradassis,” he used
the Kristang name for that world. “Excuse me, I meant to say, Paradise,” he
added with an unintentionally creepy smile that quickly faded. “Colonel, you
likely do not wish to hear this, but-”

“Yeah, I know. If the Ruhar on Paradise are
threatened, the most certain way to assure humans are not carriers of a lethal
bioweapon is to assure there are no humans on Paradise. Believe me, I had that
thought as soon as I heard about this nasty little plan. The Ruhar government
is for Goddamn sure going to consider humans expendable.”

“Colonel Perkins, there is another benefit from
the raid. We rescued many of your people,” he gestured toward where a dozen of
the former control subjects were gathered under the stealth netting.

Perkins snorted. “Screw them. I’d trade the
whole traitorous bunch of them for Tutula.”

“Oh, you misunderstand me, Colonel. The benefit
I see is if those people are infected with the live pathogen. The data
indicated their role in the testing was as a control group, however the testing
was planned to conclude by infecting them also, to see whether their value as a
control group was truly valid.”

“They might be infected?” Perkins asked with
alarm. During the raid, her team had stayed buttoned up in their powered armor,
sealed against outside air. But after the damaged dropship landed, they had
gotten out of their suits the next day. Dahl had found data tagging the group
as a test control, and Perkins realized it was impractical to keep the Mavericks
sealed inside suits forever. They could not even fly away from the Keepers, and
the interior of the dropship was surely contaminated. “Ah, damn it. The
 best
 outcome is if those Keepers, and
us, may be infected with a deadly bioweapon?”

“The data does not state whether the final phase
of the testing had begun, and I think it likely the Kristang guards who
remained behind would not have been informed of the testing progress. All the
scientists who developed the pathogen and conducted the testing had been
evacuated from this world. When we attacked the base the only personnel there
were security guards who were expendable.”

“Oh, hell,” Perkins felt a shiver despite the
sun-baked heat of the day. “Then we may be infected also. We are 
never
 getting off this rock.”

 “One
thing I don’t get,” Shauna waved a hand for attention. “Why would the Kristang
risk doing this? Biological warfare is against The Rules,” she made air quotes
with her fingers, “isn’t it? They risk the Rindhalu or even the Maxolhx
punishing them.”

Perkins shrugged. “Good point, Jarrett, but I’m
sure the Kristang figured they wouldn’t get caught; they didn’t count on us
landing here and uncovering this op. By the time the Ruhar figured out what was
going on, half the population of Paradise would be dead and the infection could
have spread through their ships to other planets. Without the data we captured,
it would be tough for the hamsters to prove the disease is not a
naturally-occurring mutation of common human viruses. The whole issue of the
senior species enforcing The Rules is kind of flexible anyway,” Perkins tilted
her head. “Remember, the reason UNEF got sent to Paradise is because our
hamster friends contaminated the place with a virus that is destructive to the
Kristang. The lizards couldn’t put boots on the ground there until they
developed a vaccine or whatever, so they sent UNEF down to handle the job of kicking
the Ruhar off the surface. The hamsters denied being involved, they lied their
asses off saying the virus was there in the soil from back when the lizards
controlled the planet, and it had mutated over the years. Neither of the senior
species did a damned thing about it, and we know the Kristang filed a formal
protest against the Ruhar. My suspicion is the Rindhalu and Maxolhx only punish
large-scale or sloppy violations of The Rules, otherwise they, uh-”

“Let the guys on the field play the game?” Dave
used a sports metaphor.

“Yeah. Like in football toward the end of a big
game that’s close, the refs ease up on anything but flagrant fouls,” Perkins
explained.

“Except the damned zebras always call against
the Packers,” Dave fumed. Being from Milwaukee, he was of course a Green Bay
fan.

“Yeah, Ski,” Jesse winked, “
only
 Packers fans complain about the referees. Colonel, you think
the lizards will get away with this?”

“Unless it gets out of control and spreads
widely through Ruhar worlds, but I don’t think that will happen. The incubation
period was carefully designed, those lizards were smart. This was,” Perkins
twirled a strand of hair around a finger, an action that made Dave stare at her
in fascination. “I have to admit, a brilliantly-designed operation. The lizards
could kill every human on Paradise, and most hamsters. They get revenge on us,
and they weaken the hamsters’ hold on the planet, the Ruhar might even abandon
the place. For sure they wouldn’t keep a battlegroup stationed there, the crews
couldn’t go down to the surface.”

“You think the pathogen would kill 
all
 humans on Paradise?” Shauna’s eyes
grew wide with fear. “The Ruhar must have the technology to create a cure.”

“I don’t think they do have the level of
technology to cook up a cure, not quickly. The data,” Perkins tapped her
laptop, “reveals the tech to engineer this virus is beyond the ability of the
Kristang, they must have gotten help from the Thuranin or Bosphuraq, or they
bought it from someone. The Ruhar would launch a full-scale effort to protect
their own population, but humans?” She shook her head sadly. “I can’t see the
Ruhar diverting resources to help humans, and they don’t understand our
biochemistry that well anyway. Remember, the way this virus works, the Ruhar
would initially think the disease is a natural mutation of viruses that humans commonly
harbor. The hamsters will think it’s our fault, they won’t be eager to help us.
I hate to say it,” she spoke aloud what she was thinking privately, “but with a
large part of their population dead or dying, the Ruhar might consider
eliminating the source of the infection. Probably they’d start by quarantining
all humans. When Ruhar keep dying,” she shrugged, “the gloves would come off. I
could see the commander in orbit hitting human sites from orbit whether the
civilian government of Gehtanu approves or not. By that time, the infection
would have spread to ships in orbit, unless the battlegroup got really lucky
and all their ships were out of the system during the entire incubation period.
This is a nightmare, if the ship with infected Keepers gets to Paradise.”

“Those damned lizards would get away with it,”
Jesse balled up his fists. “The senior species really only punish stupidity,
Colonel?”

“That’s the idea, yeah,” Perkins agreed. “Unless
a species is stupid enough to violate The Rules in a big way, or unless they
commit a minor violation but are clumsy and obvious enough to get caught, they
will probably get away with it. It’s not practical for the senior species to
run around punishing every minor technical violation, this war has been going
on long enough for everyone to know how far they can push the boundaries.
Colter, the Kristang 
will
 get away
with this, those infected Keepers might have already landed on Paradise.”

“What about us, Ma’am?” Shauna asked, afraid she
knew the answer to her own question.

“Us? We remained buttoned up during the raid but
now we’ve been exposed to the Keepers, who might be infected. The hamsters
won’t take the risk of lifting us off this planet until months have gone by and
we have either died or show no signs of infection. Even then,” she bit her lip,
“I wouldn’t take the risk, if I were them. No ship captain will be eager to
bring us off the surface here until there is a cure or vaccine available.
Probably not until both are available. Thinking about it, if those Keepers do
not ever reach Paradise, then the Ruhar won’t have incentive to make a big push
to rescue us. A handful of humans, and a couple dozen cadets on this planet,
are not worth diverting major resources from the war effort. Shit,” she
realized the endgame of her logic. “The only way the Ruhar would develop a cure
is if the infection 
does
 hit Paradise
and they have to deal with it.”

“That’s it, then?” Shauna said with despair.
“We’re stuck here? Forever?”

“Hell,” Jesse groaned. “I was just getting used
to the idea of being stuck on Paradise, and that place is a lot nicer than this
hellhole.”

“I don’t think we’ll be here forever,” Dave
looked Perkins in the eye, and she nodded. “This is a Kristang planet. They’ll
be coming back sooner or later.”

“Oh, shit.” Jesse’s shoulders slumped.

“That ain’t the worst of it,” Dave explained. “If
a hamster ship does arrive, the best move for them would be to hit us right
here from orbit, eliminate us as a threat just in case we’re infected.”

“You are a gosh-darned ray of sunshine, Ski,”
Jesse complained.

“It’s what we would do, right?” Dave retorted in
his own defense. “It’s what I would do. The Colonel is right, no way are the
hamsters spending the time and money to develop a cure just for us.”

“Oh, hell,” Jesse patted Dave’s shoulder,
“you’re right, I shouldn’t shoot the messenger. So, Ma’am, what’s our next
move?”

Perkins took a moment to carefully consider that
question. They had enough human food aboard the dropship to sustain them for
three months, four if they went on restricted rations. Cutting their nutrition
was a risk, as it might make them more susceptible to infection. The smart move
would be to eat normally until the three-month incubation period passed, then
cut back if none of them became sick. If they were sick, it didn’t matter how
much they ate because they’d be dead long before they could burn through the
supplies. “We set up camp here, wait a couple months, and hope the Ruhar are
pretty damned convinced we are not carrying the virus.”

“Ma’am,” Dave sighed, “three months is a long
time. What are the odds no Kristang ship will swing by this place during that
time?” His question didn’t require an answer. “We can’t get off this rock until
a Ruhar ship picks us up.

“That assumes any Ruhar ship arrives,” Shauna
pointed out their biggest problem. “We don’t know that anyone will hear our
beacons.”

“Hey,” Jesse didn’t like the pained look on
Shauna’s face, and draped an arm over her shoulders. “We gotta have faith. We
survived this far, what are the odds of that, huh? Somebody up there,” he
pointed to the sky, “has been looking out for us.”

Jesse had no idea that the being looking out for
them was a shiny beer can.

 

 “Colonel?”
Shauna approached the folding table where Perkins was sitting under the edge of
the stealth netting. The team’s daily walks or runs had left clearly visible
tracks in the dusty soil all around their campsite, so stretching stealth
netting over the dropship and campsite was more for morale than any real
attempt at concealment. Dragging homemade mats behind them as they walked, a
measure intended to literally cover their tracks, had proven largely
ineffective as the top layer of sun-blasted soil was a different color and no
amount of sweeping could entirely blend in their footprints. Still, Perkins
insisted everyone remain under the stealth netting when in camp, mostly because
she didn’t trust the Keepers not to do something stupid.

Their single dropship had been tossed around by
the massive blast and came perilously close to splattering on the far slope of
the ridge, but pilot skill and a good measure of luck worked in their favor. In
the roiling air, the dropship had turned and flown first north, then west so
the prevailing winds carried the short-lived radioactive fallout away, then
landed when its one engine turbine began overheating. The spot was as good as
any, so they had set up camp around the grounded Dodo. They had to wait, for
three months at least, until they could be certain none of them had brought a
deadly pathogen away from the base with them. Ruhar cadets had flown a dropship
high overhead to drop supplies, but otherwise the raid survivors and former
prisoners were alone.

“Jarrett?” Perkins looked up from her tablet.
“You have news for me?” That day had been Shauna’s turn to check everyone for
signs of infection with the handheld medical scanner.

“No, Ma’am, not exactly. Everyone checks out, no
infection.” It was understood that ‘no infection’ meant no infection the
scanner could detect, yet. If the genetically-engineered pathogen was as
fiendishly ingenious as the Kristang database boasted of, they might all be
infected, with the deadly prions biding their time inside clusters of cells. If
so, there was nothing Shauna or anyone on the planet could do about it. “Can we
talk?” She asked with a glance around to assure no one could overhear them.
With the evening chill fast approaching as the sun set, most people were inside
tents or the dropship.

“Certainly, Jarrett,” Perkins set down her
tablet as a sign the soldier had her full attention. After the initial
excitement of the raid and then analyzing the data, boredom and depression had
set in. People had nothing to do except wait to learn if they would die of
infection, or of starvation. Or die in a maser blast from a Kristang warship. Or
bombarded from orbit by a Ruhar ship. The sense of hopelessness was almost
worse for the Keepers, because when they saw humans coming to pull them out of
their life of slavery at the base, they expected to be rescued. Knowing their
would-be rescuers had no way of getting off the planet had been a crushing blow
both to Keeper morale and to Perkins’ thin authority over them. That is why the
Mavericks always carried weapons, and why the Keepers were not allowed near the
precious but crippled dropship. “What is it?” She asked in her best motherly
voice, a tone she had used so often recently that she was getting tired of it.
She had signed up for the Army to be an intelligence specialist, not a camp
counselor. Especially irritating were the Keepers who wanted to justify their
stupidity, feeling a need to explain to her and anyone who would listen why
they had gotten themselves into such a mess. But the absolute worst were the
handful of Keepers who refused to believe the Kristang had used them for
harmful medical experiments, in a plan to use the human population of Paradise
as unwitting weapons against the Ruhar. Perkins had cut off their line of bullshit
immediately, and kept those true fanatics separate from the other former
prisoners.

Shauna sat on the rock next to Perkins, crossing
her legs in a sort of yoga position, looking toward the setting sun. She took a
deep breath, wrinkling her nose at the acrid burnt smell that pervaded the
entire planet’s surface. Did the oceans also smell bad? She asked herself. “At
times like this, Camp Alpha doesn’t seem half bad, but most of the times, I 
hate
 this place. The first time we were
here, I was too busy, and too stupid and naive to pay attention to what a pit
this place is. That maybe should have been my first clue the Kristang were not
the good guys.”

“It’s not that bad, Jarrett. You ever been to
the NTC at Fort Irwin?” She meant the National Training Center in the Mojave Desert.
When Shauna shook her head, Perkins continued. “A hundred ten degrees in the
afternoon, and don’t believe that bullshit about it being a ‘dry heat’. One ten
is Goddamned hot. My first overseas assignment was Iraq,” she shook her head in
disbelief that America still had boots on the ground in that country, even if
those troops were technically only supposed to provide ‘advice and training’.
“Now 
that
 place is scorching hot in
summer, and the northern mountains get bone-chilling cold in winter. You know
what the Nigerian jungle is like, a steam bath on a good day. Camp Alpha is a pleasant
spa by comparison. Also, here I don’t have to check my boots for scorpions and
snakes every morning.”

Shauna tilted her head back to gaze at the sky.
The sun was low enough that the second planet in the system could be seen as a
bright star in the sky. “Here, all we have to worry about is a Kristang ship
jumping in and blasting us from orbit.”

“Is that what you wanted to talk about?” Perkins
nudged her tablet as a hint she wanted to get back to work.

“No.”

“I’m kind of busy-”

“No, you’re not.” Shauna looked her CO straight
in the eye. “None of us are 
busy
.
We’re waiting, and nothing we do down here matters. A friendly ship jumps in to
rescue us before the lizards get here, or it doesn’t. If we’re infected, we die
down here, because no ship will take us aboard. There’s nothing any of 
has
 to do down here. Nothing that
matters.”

Perkins noted Shauna had not addressed her as
Colonel or Ma’am, and she let it slide. “You’re feeling helpless, is that it?”
If that were true, she would be surprised. Sergeant Jarrett had been a
squared-away, focused soldier since the day they met.

Shauna spat on the dusty ground. The acrid air
irritated her throat. “I’ve been feeling helpless since Columbus Day, when
aliens pounded our homeworld from orbit. What I’m here to talk about is Dave.”

“Sergeant Czajka?” That soldier had seemed
distracted the past several days, Perkins attributed that to boredom after the
excitement of combat.

“He’s planning to leave the Force, if we get
back to Paradise.”

“That-” The Mavericks without Dave Czajka? She
could not imagine her team without-Emily felt a lump in her throat. She could
not imagine 
herself
 without him.
Bunking with that male soldier had been awkward, but just listening to him
breathing in the bunk right above her head had been comforting. She missed
greeting him in the mornings, even though that was often the most awkward part
of the day for each of them. “I know many people are worried about
opportunities passing them by on Paradise, but out here we’ve seen plenty of
action. If he-”

“Dave got an offer to go into business brewing
beer, or something like that, but that’s not the problem. You need to stop
stringing him along.”

“What? Soldier, that-”

Shauna let out a long, weary breath. “Don’t give
me that ‘soldier’ shit. I’m off duty. This is two women talking. You think out
here, military protocol matters?” She rolled her eyes angrily. “UNEF is 
over
. It’s dead. Whatever authority the
Force had so far from home, it died when our access to Earth got cut off.”

“Jarrett,” Perkins refused to use the other
woman’s first name, “military protocol and the Code of Conduct are all we have
out here. We can’t-”

“No. The Code of Conduct was all we 
had
, back when we shipped out. If the
only thing keeping us together are regulations from a planet that could be
dead, then all we’re doing out here is playing soldier, and that’s pathetic.
These,” she tapped her UNEF and US ARMY patches, “are not why I came off
Paradise. I want to make a difference, and this team, 
your
 team, is my best chance to matter to the future of humanity.
When we met, all I knew was you rode a chair as a staff officer, and intel
types are not the most popular with foot soldiers. You had to earn our respect,
and you’ve got it. By the time we get back to Paradise, if there is anyone
still alive there, the entire Force might have dissolved, and where does that
leave us? You told us we need to think long-term about how humans fit into
Ruhar society. You’re right about that, but whatever strategy we use long-term,
UNEF won’t be a useful part of it.”

“You’ve given me a lot to think about,” Perkins
replied in a neutral tone.

“The strategy stuff can wait. Dave can’t. Think
about that first, or you’re going to lose him, we’ll all lose him. If you are
really not interested, then you need to tell him. If you are interested, don’t
hide behind regs written on a planet a thousand lightyears from here. Dave is a

good guy
,” Shauna emphasized by
squeezing the other woman’s shoulder. “That’s not easy to find.”

“Again, I need time to think,” Perkins relied,
irritation creeping into her voice.

Shauna stood up and stretched her legs. The sun
had set and already the night air was growing chilly. “Think about this, then.
We’re making up the rules as we go out here. Maybe it’s time to throw out some
of the rulebooks we took with us from Earth, if following those rules means we
don’t have a Force left. Colonel, we didn’t follow you to the stars because of
a rulebook.”

Emily Perkins never picked up her tablet that
night, whatever trivial task she had been working on forgotten. She had a lot
to think about, and no star to guide her. Jarrett was right, they were fighting
a new war, with a new human society, maybe they needed a new set of rules.
Still, she had joined the military as a career and the rules and traditions of
the service were deeply ingrained, deeply personal. Rules were the difference
between a well-disciplined force and a mob.

She had a 
lot

to think about.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER
TWENTY ONE
The star carrier 
Deal Me In
 was officially declared Overdue, when that ship failed
to contact a relay station as scheduled. The relay station noted the event, and
sent the notice to a passing ship the next day, but the local Jeraptha fleet
base commander did not become concerned immediately. She did not become
concerned because a delay of one or two days during a long training mission was
not unusual, and because she had much more important matters on her mind.

The Bosphuraq, who had been quiet for decades
along the border they shared with the Jeraptha, had suddenly demonstrated a
radical change of tactics. The birdbrains had unexpectedly launched attacks
into territory recently lost by the Thuranin. These attacks, supported by ships
of their client species the Wurgalan to handle the grunt work of taking planets
and scouring solar systems of threats, were mostly conducted by battlegroups of
the standard Bosphuraq fleet action deployment; two battleships escorted by a
half dozen cruisers and up to fifteen destroyers, frigates and support vessels.
The Jeraptha had long-standing tactics to deal with a Bosphuraq battlegroup,
either alone or in multiple units, so at first the local fleet commander was
not overly concerned.

Then she received reports of something new and
alarming; Bosphuraq and Thuranin ships operating together. Based on very skimpy
data coming in from Jeraptha ships that had been hit hard by the unexpected
enemy offensive, it appeared the Thuranin were taking a supporting role in
recapturing the territory they had recently lost. Few Kristang ships were
participating, perhaps because those lizards were busily enjoying one of their
regularly-scheduled murderous civil wars. Regardless, it was mostly the
Wurgalan doing the dirty grunt work of securing planets after the combined
Bosphuraq/Thuranin warships cleared a star system of resistance and rolled onto
the next objective.

So, when another four days went by and the 
Deal Me In
 still had not contacted a
relay station or friendly ship, the star carrier and its attached task force of
Ruhar ships was declared Missing. It worried the local fleet commander that the

Deal Me In
 had been operating close
to the area where the Bosphuraq suddenly attacked, and that no other Jeraptha
fleet assets had been in that area at the time. The star carrier had been
operating there with a group of Ruhar ships conducting training exercises,
because that area was supposed to be 
safe
.

The local fleet commander had three emotional
reactions. First, shock and outrage, not at the carnage caused by the Bosphuraq
attack, but because she recently had wagered the Thuranin would not go on the
offensive in her sector for another fifteen months. Her shock was that she had
been caught on the wrong side of the wager, and her outrage was that the unscrupulous
bean-counters at the Central Office of Wagering would not cut her a break just
because the Bosphuraq had taken the lead in the attack. Thuranin warships were
participating in the offensive, so she had lost the wager, period. That
argument would seesaw back and forth in the courts for years and the terms of
the wager might be adjusted slightly, but overall the local fleet commander was
well and truly 
screwed
.

Second, she felt sorry for the crew of the 
Deal Me In
 and its attached Ruhar task
force. Considering the scale of the enemy offensive, the star carrier being
declared missing very likely meant it had been lost to enemy action, and she quenched
her feelings of sorrow long enough to post a wager that the 
Deal Me In
 had in fact been destroyed.

The third emotion she felt was regret, regret
that she could not spare even a single ship of her overtasked fleet to search
for the 
Deal Me In
. That old star
carrier, with its attached group of older Ruhar ships that had been working up
crew trainees for fleet service, was simply not important enough to devote
scarce resources to a search she felt certain would have only one result: finding
scattered debris. The worst part of the situation was that, as the 
Deal Me In
 had been operating
independently, it did not have a predetermined flight plan when it departed
from the planet the Ruhar called Gehtanu. It could be anywhere, and even the
entire Jeraptha fleet might never find a single piece of debris from that ship.

No, she could not detach even a frigate for the
search operation, so she did the only thing she could do, the only action that
might resolve the mystery of the star carrier’s fate. She used local fleet
funds to post an open wager across Jeraptha space, a wager that no trace of the
lost star carrier would be found within 47 days. The terms of the wager were
generous and should prove enticing to any commercial vessel crazy and desperate
enough to go looking around in what was now Bosphuraq-controlled space.

Of course, she also registered a small offsetting
wager of her own, in the case of a miracle that even one of the 
Deal Me
 
In
’s crew were found alive.

 

The 
Sure
Thing
 was an old, very old, Jeraptha star carrier that had been retired,
sold and much modified over the centuries, with few of the modifications making
the ship better or even keeping it in the marginal condition it had suffered
from before the alterations. While the 
Sure
Thing 
had left its original shipyard with three main and two auxiliary
reactors, fourteen hardpoints for docking ships, a railgun and multiple missile
launchers and maser cannons, it now was much reduced in power and fortune. A
single ancient and leaky reactor powered the ship, with auxiliary power
provided by worn-out powercells and a type of primitive Ruhar fuel cells that
even the Ruhar no longer used aboard their own ships. Only three hardpoints now
remained, those being suitable only for cargo containers, which was fine as the

Sure Thing
 now carried only cargo
across the star lanes. Of the original armament, only a single maser cannon
remained other than maser turrets for self-defense, and all those units had
exciters that were more likely to explode and damage the ship than protect it.

As a search and rescue ship, the 
Sure Thing
 had only three things in its
favor. It was a former star carrier, capable of traveling vast distances on its
own. It had excellent sensor gear, because the crew wanted to avoid danger, and
even more wanted to avoid Jeraptha Revenue and Customs ships that were currently
seeking to impound 
Sure Thing
 for
unpaid docking fees, violating space maneuver regulations and flying a
poorly-maintained ship whose spaceworthiness certificate had expired the
previous year. And, the most important factor in favor of the 
Sure Thing
 was that ship’s owners were
truly, absolutely, desperate. They already owed more in unpaid fees and lost
wagers than the ship was worth. The crew had not been paid for months, both for
salaries and for a lengthy list of wagers the crew had won against the vessel’s
owners.

Thus, the two owners of the 
Sure Thing
, a married couple, had nothing to lose when they heard
about the wager to find the lost 
Deal Me
In
. Unfortunately, they also had nothing to wager with.

Vincerientu ‘Vinny’ Gumbano clicked his antenna
together nervously, in a gesture he knew his business partner understood was a
sign that Vinny was about to say something she might not like. Vinny concentrated
on holding his antenna still, but as soon as his concentration slipped, they
clicked their tips against each other, causing Ammarie Viso to cross both her
arms and her own antenna. “What is it now, Vinny?”

“Darling, this is a marvelous opportunity. We’ll
never get an opportunity like this again!”

“You mean never again, because if we don’t cash
in now, we’ll lose the ship and be totally out of action. The next port we put
into, the Customs and Revenue people will seize this bucket and we can’t stop
them.” For the past year, the 
Sure Thing

had been running on borrowed time, multiple false registrations and a well-placed
wager that the Customs and Revenue service would catch the ship within fourteen
months. The last time they were in port, an official from Customs and Revenue had
almost certainly seen through the thin cover of their false registration, but
since that official had taken the other side of the wager, that his service
would 
not
 catch the 
Sure Thing
, the ship had been allowed to
slip away. That particular wager was some of the best money Vinny and Ammarie
had ever spent. “Vinny, dear, you don’t need to sell me on this one; I agree we
should take the action for finding the 
Deal
Me In
. There is only one problem: we don’t have anything to wager with! We
owe more on this ship than it’s worth and the Central Wagering Office knows
that. We can’t even pay off the bets we’ve lost in the last year.”

“We do have something to wager,” Vinny’s antenna
fairly danced, he was so nervous. “I insured our cargo for double its value,”
his eyes cast down to the deck, then flicked upward to see his partner’s
reaction.

She laughed. “You too? 
I
 insured it for double!”

Vinny was less surprised that he might have
been, for he was used to Ammarie out-guessing him. “The cargo is insured for 
four
 times its value?”

“Five,” came another voice from the hatchway,
and in walked their two remaining crew members, the only ones who had hung on
when the paychecks and wager payoffs stopped flowing. Cleeturss Delroy had not
left the ship because he was Ammarie’s brother, and because he figured his only
chance to collect on back pay and wagers was to stay with the ship and watch
the two owners with keen eyes and a suspicious heart. “We,” he pointed to
indicate his wife Thelmer, “took out our own insurance policy.”

“You don’t have an insurable interest,” Ammarie
groaned, wary of her sometimes dim-witted brother’s schemes. Cleeturss had good
concepts, he just was not good at the details. So something usually went wrong.
Almost always went wrong.

“Don’t worry,” Thelmer assured the ship’s owners.
“I ran it through shell companies.”

“
You

did?” Ammarie asked hopefully.

“Why?” Cleeturss clacked his antenna irritably.
“You don’t trust me?”

“I do trust you, dear brother. I trust Thelmer 
more
.”

“She did it,” Cleeturss let his antenna flop.
“But it was 
my
 idea.”

“Good, excellent,” Vinny interrupted, wanting to
forestall another argument between Ammarie and her brother, but he was just a
bit too late.

“Why did 
you

insure our cargo?” Ammarie pressed her brother, drawing herself up on her hind
set of legs.

“Because,” Thelmer stepped between the siblings.
“We want to get back pay, regardless of what happens to this ship. At this
point, you have an incentive for this ship to suffer an unfortunate accident,
if you know what I mean. That might solve the problem you two got into, but it
would leave Cleeturss and me with nothing. Don’t tell me that ditching this
ship never crossed your mind, Ammarie, I know you’re smarter than that.”

Ammarie looked to her business and life partner,
and when Vinny said nothing, she sighed. “Let’s put all that aside for now,
hmm? We have agreed to take this wager, to find the 
Deal Me In?”

“
You

have agreed to the wager,” Thelmer insisted. “Cleeturss and I will keep our
interest in the cargo.”

“But, honey,” Cleeturss pleaded, “this is juicy
action. You don’t want to get in on this one?”

“We 
are

in this,” Thelmer stroked her husband’s face with an antenna. “Our part of the
wager is the back pay and wagers we are already owed and will collect if we
find the 
Deal Me In
. Plus, our ship
owners are cutting us in for thirty percent, for our labor.”

“Thirty?” Ammarie screeched, outraged. “
Five
! Five percent.”

The two women argued back and forth, with their
men wisely staying out of the way. Cleeturss went to the galley and got two
glasses of cold burgoze for himself and Vinny, and they whispered to arrange a
bet on what percentage the women would agree to. When Ammarie and Thelmer
grudgingly touched antennas to agree on twelve point three percent, Cleeturss
smiled and took a sip of burgoze, having won his wager.

“
Now

we are all agreed,” Vinny’s tone was sour, for he wished Ammarie had negotiated
more forcefully. Privately, he would have agreed to cut the crew members in for
seventeen percent, so settling for just over twelve was a victory. He enjoyed
watching Ammarie in action, but he hated losing a wager to her brother.

“Yes.” Ammarie’s expression was less than happy.
“We only have one problem.”

“What’s that?” Cleeturss bent an antenna back to
scratch the nape of his neck.

“We have no idea where to look for a single,
lost, star carrier.”

“
I

do,” Vinny winked with more than a hint of smugness.

“You? When our entire fleet has no idea where
that ship might have gone?”

“Our fleet is powerful, victorious and well-managed.
They are also not good at thinking beyond their training. The fleet does not
know where the 
Deal Me In
 went, so
they assume they
 can’t
 know. We are
going to figure out where the ship might have gone, check those places one by
one until we find a flight recorder buoy or some other evidence to lead us to
that ship.”

“Where it might have gone? Fleet stated that
star carrier was on detached service, carrying a training group. Their plans
were flexible, they could have gone anywhere.”

“No, not 
any
where.
Most places they could have gone were safe, and we wouldn’t be searching for
them now. Wherever they went, they ran into trouble, unexpected trouble.
Something happened, they saw something to pull them out of their training
routine. Whatever they saw, it wasn’t serious enough to cancel the training
exercise and report to a relay station. It had to be something that sparked
their curiosity, but wasn’t immediately seen as a serious threat.”

“What? You want us to guess?” Ammarie asked with
an anxiety informed by long experience with Vinny’s schemes.

“No, I want us to review the data we have. The
fleet won’t send us any more data than they included in the wager, so we need
to search elsewhere.”

“Like,” Cleeturss scratched his head with an
antenna, “where?”

“We start here,” Vinny grinned, knowing he had
hooked his audience. “We know the 
Deal Me In
 passed by this relay
station.”

“Yes, and?” Thelmer was skeptical, having fallen
victim to many of Vinny’s half-baked schemes over the years. “There are
thirteen star systems within range of that relay station, plus two wormholes.”

“True. But, the Glando system,” Vinny tapped the
display with one antenna, “was among the first to be hit by the Bosphuraq.
Before you tell me that information is worthless, yes, we also know from our
garrison at Glando that no star carrier arrived, until a fleet squadron four
days ago. We do know the fleet suspects the Bosphuraq refueled in this red
dwarf system, before the attack on Glando. There is an automated sensor picket
station orbiting a gas giant around that red dwarf, and one of our recon ships
reported that station is now offline.”

“So?”

“What if a Ruhar ship attached to the 
Deal Me In
 jumped into that red dwarf
system and noticed the picket station was offline? Investigating a minor
mystery like that would be a good training exercise.”

“Ah,” Ammarie’s head bobbed excitedly.

“Again, so?” Cleeturss hadn’t caught on yet. “If
we find debris from Ruhar ships, their government would pay us for the
information, but that doesn’t win the bet for us. We need to find the 
Deal Me In
, and the star carrier would
have remained outside the system.”

“If Ruhar ships were destroyed there, we should find
flight recorder drones in the debris field,” Ammarie explained patiently for
her partner. “Those drones will tell us where the ship planned to rendezvous
with the star carrier. We do have the codes to make those Ruhar drones respond
to us, at least for the limited data set we need. The 
Deal Me In 
should have moved on from that rendezvous point as soon
as the Ruhar ships were aboard, but once the crew realized they were in a
potential combat situation, they would have dropped off drones to report their
planned course. We will query those drones and follow that course. Now that we
are officially on a search and rescue mission for the fleet, we also have the
codes for fleet drones.”

“That is it?” Cleeturss was not persuaded. “What
if we don’t find anything in this red dwarf system?”

“There are two more possibilities I can think
of,” Vinny glared at his brother-in-law. “We keep going.”

“Hopping around enemy-controlled space until we
find something, or we are caught by a Bosphuraq task force?” Cleeturss leaned
forward on his front legs, ignoring his wife stroking the back of his neck to
calm him. “
That
 is your plan?”

“You understand why the fleet offered such
generous terms on the wager, don’t you? Because it is dangerous.”

“We’ll do it,” Thelmer said before Cleeturss
could respond.

 

The 
Sure
Thing
 did not find any debris or evidence of a battle in the red dwarf
system where the automated picket station had stopped functioning. No flight
recorder drones responded to their pings, but they did detect gamma ray bursts
from enemy ships, too many enemy ships. Stretching their luck until it nearly
broke, they hopped around the system waiting for drones to respond, then jumped
far away when a Thuranin destroyer got too close for comfort.

The second possibility on their search list, the
one Vinny thought had the least promise, paid off for their risk. Vinny
grumbled because Thelmer had placed and won a side bet that the second site
would provide the data they needed, but he could not argue with success.

The second site was nothing more than an
imaginary point in space, designated for civilian ships to wait for a star
carrier in case of an emergency in the Bardek system, close to the former
border of Thuranin territory. Bardek itself was barely worth the attention of
the enemy, having no habitable planets and being useful only for an asteroid
field rich in rare elements, but any attackers wanting to push farther into
Jeraptha territory needed to secure their flanks by taking Bardek first. The rendezvous
site where the 
Sure Thing
 jumped in was
actually the second backup location for civilian ships to rendezvous, and because
it was so far from Bardek, a ship would need to be in severe distress to go all
the way there. Vinny’s logic had been to check that site first, because a
sudden Bosphuraq attack on Bardek would certainly be considered a severe
emergency.

The 
Sure

Thing
’s sensors, one of the few
shipboard systems in proper working order, picked up a large debris field,
mostly broken Ruhar ships but also the remains of a single Jeraptha cargo
transport ship. Pinging for a Jeraptha drone was fruitless, either the cargo
transport did not have time to eject its flight recorder data, or the drone had
been destroyed. While warships carried drones with sophisticated stealth
capabilities, civilian ships could rarely afford, and rarely would need, such
unnecessary luxuries. Pinging for Ruhar military drones was more useful, they
got replies from a half-dozen ships, and the drones all told slightly different
versions of the same tragic story.

Ruhar ships on a routine training mission away
from the 
Deal Me In
 had detected mysterious
gamma ray bursts, and when they returned, the star carrier was sufficiently
curious to halt the training exercise and launch two recon task forces, but not
sufficiently alarmed to entirely break off from its mission and contact the
Jeraptha fleet directly. The 
Deal Me In

had dropped off two groups of Ruhar ships, one group at the rendezvous point
where the 
Sure Thing
 had jumped in.
Those unfortunate Ruhar ships had been ambushed by a force of Wurgalan ships,
supported by a single Bosphuraq battlecruiser.

“Some Ruhar ships escaped. We have the
coordinates where they were scheduled to meet the star carrier?” Vinny asked
distractedly, his concentration on the sensors, wary of booby-traps left behind
by the enemy.

“We do,” Ammarie confirmed. “We should get out
of here.”

“Wait!” Cleeturss waved both his arms and
antenna. “We are going to jump into a rendezvous point where a military star
carrier may have been destroyed? We should think about this first.”

“Agreed, brother, I 
have
 thought about it.” Ammarie pressed a button on the console in
front of her, and the 
Sure Thing

jumped.

 

There were no enemy ships waiting at the
rendezvous point, only a drone dropped off by the 
Deal
 
Me In
 before it had
jumped to pick up the second group of Ruhar ships. This time, Vinny hesitated
while their ship’s jump coils recharged. “Darling, we are on the trail of the 
Deal Me In
, that is far more than our
fleet accomplished. Maybe we should contact the fleet and let them take the
search from here. They’ll cut us in for twenty percent, maybe.”

“Hmmf,” Ammarie sniffed. “They’ll cut us 
out
, you mean. We do all the hard work,
and now you want to let the fleet take eighty percent of 
our
 wager?”

“We know the 
Deal
Me In
 wasn’t destroyed here, so every place we jump following that ship,
the more likely it is we run into trouble,” Vinny almost pleaded, having suddenly
lost his appetite for risk. “If we get caught in a damping field, we get cut
out of a 
hundred
 percent.”

“Dearest,” Ammarie took a breath to give herself
patience, as she often did when dealing with her partner. “Twenty percent is
not enough to pay off our debts, plus the fines we’ve racked up. It’s all or
nothing. If we contact the fleet now, even 
if

we get twenty percent, we lose this ship and we’ll be on the run. Again. Do you
want that?”

“No,” Vinny hated being convinced he was wrong,
especially because in this case he had thought contacting the fleet was what
Ammarie wanted. “Thelmer, Cleeturss, the only way you’re getting what we
already owe you is if we follow this through.”

Vinny’s brother-in-law surprised him. “We want
our cut. I know it’s risky, but, we’ve come this far, dang it, and now I just
have to know what happened to that ship.”

 

Vinny was all for taking risk if there was a
potential payoff, but since the jump to follow the 
Deal Me In
 involved risk with not much corresponding reward, he
directed the ship to jump in far enough away that his ship had a decent chance
to escape if enemy ships were in the area. He was excited and he knew his three
companions were equally eager to see if the lost star carrier was at the
rendezvous point. The best case would be for the 
Deal Me In
 to be found intact, merely suffering some engineering
failure and unable to jump, with the attached Ruhar ships lacking range to jump
all the way to the nearest occupied star system or relay station to call for
help. The worst case would be to find a debris field surrounded by enemy ships,
where the 
Sure Thing
 would be trapped
and destroyed.

With the rotten luck he had recently, and by
‘recently’ Vinny meant most of his adult life, he was not betting on a
best-case scenario.

“No enemy ships, or ships of any kind,” Ammarie
reported soon after the sensors reset from the jump. “Unless they’re in
stealth,” she added without needing to. They all understood the ship’s sensors,
which exceeded even the capabilities of the gear aboard the ship when it was a
frontline star carrier in fleet service, could not quickly detect ships
encased in stealth fields. She set the passive sensors to search for the faint
ripples sometimes detectable when a stealthed ship passed in front of a star,
and powered up the active sensor field. The gamma rays of their inbound jump
had lit up the area like a strobe light, there was no point trying to remain
quiet. “Oh, this is not good. I’m picking up debris, a 
lot
 of it.”

“Pinging for flight recorder drones, ours and
Ruhar. I’ve got a bad feeling about this,” Vinny kept one antenna poised over
the emergency jump button while his fingers flew over the controls.

“All systems ready to jump on your mark,”
Cleeturss didn’t take his eyes away from his own console. Vinny was generally
an optimist, to the point of taking foolish risks that had gotten him in
trouble again and again. If he had a bad feeling, Cleeturss did not want to
remain in the area any longer than they had to.

 

When the Bosphuraq battlecruiser jumped away,
after having broken the Jeraptha star carrier and destroying all the Ruhar
ships except for one unimportant old training cruiser that jumped away, it had
left a nasty surprise for any Jeraptha ships searching for the lost 
Deal Me In
. The battlecruiser dropped
off eleven ship-killer missiles, keyed to react only to Jeraptha or
equivalent-technology ships. The missiles had been instructed to ignore any
Ruhar ships jumping into the battlespace, as those ships could not reach a
habitable planet from that location and were already as good as dead anyway.

After their mother ship jumped away, the
missiles spread out in a wide pattern to cover the area, then went silent and
activated their tightly-wrapped stealth fields. The missiles noted when the
Ruhar training cruiser jumped back in, and they did not drop stealth or attack
or react in any way, even when they observed the old cruiser attaching itself
to a docking platform on what used to be the aft end of the star carrier.

The tiny brains of the missiles were smart, and
each missile silently fretted while watching passively as the enemy worked on
what remained of the star carrier. The enemy was clearly doing something to get
the star carrier’s jump drive functioning again, and each missile agonized
about whether the Jeraptha ship being restored to even limited flight
capability should authorize the missiles to attack. If they could have
conferred with each other, they might have decided this unprecedented event
allowed them to stretch the bounds of their orders, but the missiles had been
programmed for strict communications silence.

After the astonishing event of the broken star
carrier jumping safely away from the battlespace, two of the missiles became
deranged by their failure to act, and safeguards built into their artificial
brains caused those missiles to fry their electronics and hang cold and dead in
space, slowly drifting farther from the battlespace.

The other nine missiles queried their
instruction set to determine what they should have done based on their orders,
and the missiles decided their instruction sets did not encompass the
possibility of a broken star carrier jumping to safety. So, the missiles felt
they were free to rewrite their instructions to carry out their overall mission,
and they became absolutely determined not to let 
any
 type of enemy ship get away ever again, and to hell with their stupid
original orders.

 

“Getting responses from drones,” Thelmer’s eyes
scanned the flood of incoming data. “That’s odd. There is a second set of
drones out there.”

“Ours or Ruhar?” Vinny asked distractedly,
concentrating on his own set of sensor data. It was clear a Jeraptha ship had
been hit in that area, enough of the debris was unmistakably from a Jeraptha
warship and he also detected residual signs of Bosphuraq warheads. Missiles had
been flying, Jeraptha, Bosphuraq and Ruhar. What he could not yet understand
was the debris with Jeraptha signatures did not have enough mass to be from an
entire star carrier, not even an old one like the 
Deal Me In
. Had part of the star carrier been transformed into
subatomic particles? Or had the Bosphuraq somehow, for some unknown but
disturbing reason, taken away part of the old 
Deal Me In
? Vinny did not like the thought of that.

“Both,” Cleeturss responded, surprise in his
tone. “There is a second, later set of drones from the 
Deal Me In
, and from a Ruhar training cruiser.”

“You are certain they are from the 
Deal Me In
?””

“The registration code is unmistakable,” Thelmer
let irritation creep into her voice. Did the ship’s owner think she didn’t know
her job? “I verified- 
Missile warning red
!
Jump us out of here!”

Vinny would not have hesitated, except that he
had no choice. His antenna nearly pressed the button for a preprogrammed
emergency jump, only seeing a red light flashing on his console made him stop.
“Damping field!” He shouted.

 

The 
Sure
Thing
 had jumped in just beyond the rough sphere formed by the nine
remaining active missiles, so only two missiles had any chance to hit the ship.
Fortunately for the 
Sure
 
Thing
, even the closest missile was far
enough away that it needed to compromise stealth by engaging its propulsion
system to get within effective range of its warhead. Unfortunately for the 
Sure Thing
, the missile that was
slightly farther away contained a technology that was possessed only by the
Bosphuraq, Maxolhx and Rindhalu. It was a short-duration damping field, powered
by detonation of the missile’s warhead. Compared to similar devices owned by
the two senior species, the Bosphuraq damping generator was crude, and effective
for only a short sphere around the missile, so crude the Maxolhx had not
objected too strongly when their clients recently managed to reverse-engineer
the technology.

 

“Damping effect-from where?” Ammarie screeched,
throwing up her hands. She did not see a ship on sensors, and no ship could
both maintain stealth and generate a damping field at the same time. No 
known
 ship had that capability, a
thought which sent an icy chill from the end of her antenna to the toes of her
hind legs. Could they be facing a Maxolhx warship? And why was there the
distinct signature of a missile warhead detonation at the center of the damping
field? “We-” a section of the display caught her eye. “Jump!”

Vinny looked at his partner. “But we’re caught
in-”

“I know! Jump! Jump 
now
!”

The 
Sure
Thing
 jumped. Sort of.

 

 “What
was 
that
?” Vinny hugged a chair with
both sets of legs while gripping the sides of the console with both hands,
taking even gulps of air to quell his queasy stomach.

“Something new, something we’ve never seen. The
fleet will be interested in this data,” Ammarie weakly waved a hand at her own
console, blinking to make her eyes focus. It didn’t help, the problem wasn’t
with her eyes, it was with her rattled brain which was throbbing with the
beginning of a painful headache. She sent a command to her internal medical
monitor to release pain suppressors into her bloodstream, and turned her
attention back to the data that was still compiling. “That damping field was
projected by a missile.”

“A 
missile
?
How-” Vinny realized that question was not important at the moment. The ship
had jumped less than one lighthour from the battlespace, and if they were being
pursued by an enemy warship, the 
Sure
Thing
 was surely in major trouble. If the attack had been conducted only by
missiles, the crew had time to inspect and make repairs to the jump drive
before moving away. “Forget it. Good work, darling. How did you know?”

“I saw the damping field had peaked and was
already weakening, the missile must only be able to project a temporary bubble.
There was either a regular missile homing in on us,” she wasn’t yet able to
make sense of the sensor data, “or another damping field coming after the first
one passed by us. We jumped just as the damping field strength dropped below the
critical limit.”

“Below the critical limit for most ships. With
the condition of our old drive system,” Vinny didn’t finish the thought. “Good
enough. We have evidence the 
Deal Me In

was destroyed, so we should head back as soon as we-”

“Not yet,” Thelmer held up a hand for attention.
“The 
Deal Me In
 was hit, but not
destroyed.”

“It jumped away?” Vinny asked incredulously.
From the debris field he had scanned, the star carrier had been thoroughly
ripped apart.

“Not exactly.”

Vinny “What do you mean ‘not exactly’?”

Thelmer’s antennas twitched with amusement. “You
are 
not
 going to believe this.”

 

 “That
is impossible,” Vinny declared flatly. A broken star carrier had jumped, under the
control of a 
Ruhar
 ship?! A Ruhar
ship commanded by a 
human
. Vinny’s
mind reeled at the idea of a lowly human being in command of anything more
complicated than a rowboat. His gambler’s brain pounded at the unlikeliness of
a broken star carrier jumping at all, and that the jump controller had been
developed by the Ruhar. He would have wagered everything he had that neither of
those events could have been possible! Yet, according to the flight recorder
log certified as accurate by the 
Deal Me
In
’s former crewman Arlon Dahl, it had been the clever thinking and initiative
of the human called Emily Perkins that saved both her old Ruhar cruiser, the
life of Arlon Dahl, and the aft section of the 
Deal Me In
.

“It happened, therefore it is 
not
 impossible,” Thelmer retorted. “Do
you want to bet on it?”

“No.” Vinny replied automatically as he had lost
too many wagers to his sister-in-law. “Ammarie, we need to follow that, that,”
what could he call it? The thing that had jumped away from the battlespace was
not a star carrier, and the Ruhar training ship was not capable of jumping a
useful distance. “Follow what is left of the 
Deal Me In
.”

“What? Why?” Ammarie was wary of another scheme
from Vinny. “We have proof that we found the missing ship.”

“We found 
part

of the missing ship. Those sleazy bureaucrats at Central Wagering will use any
excuse to cut our winnings, you know that. Darling, we can follow easily, there
is less danger going into Kristang space than there is for us being here. When
we locate the ship, and the one crewman who survived,” Vinny knew there would
be a bonus if they could bring back Arlon Dahl, “the fleet will surely forgive
all past transgressions we’ve committed.”

“
Allegedly

committed.”

“Plus,” Vinny was getting wound up with
enthusiasm. “That training ship is full of cadets. The Ruhar will reward us well
for bringing back their precious children.”

“You hope.”

“I believe.”

“This is a sure thing?” Ammarie put her hands on
her hips and Vinny knew what that meant. “Like all your sure things before?”

“This is different.”

“Different how?”

“This time, you agree with me.” Vinny flashed a
winning smile.

Ammarie sighed. “Maybe you’re right. This one
time, mind you. Besides, there’s one thing you forgot.”

“What is that?”

“A Ruhar ship controlled one of our jump drives.
The Ruhar fleet 
will
 pay dearly for
the knowledge of how that happened.”

Thelmer and Cleeturss agreed wholeheartedly,
even enthusiastically to the idea of following the 
Deal Me In
. All four aboard were greedily imagining their cuts of
the wager and rewards money, and all four were burning with curiosity to learn
whether the aft end of the 
Deal Me In

had successfully jumped, or had exploded into a million pieces. For another
species, agreement and curiosity would have been enough to settle the issue. For
the Jeraptha, those factors merely served as an opening for renegotiating their
financial arrangements, and to set side wagers on whether the broken star
carrier had in fact survived a jump. And had jumped more than once. Had flown
through a wormhole. Had arrived at a Kristang-controlled star system. There
were other wagers on how many, if any, of the cadets and other crew would still
be alive when the 
Sure Thing
 arrived.
Vinny allowed the dickering back and forth to continue, both because he
couldn’t resist getting in on the action, and because work to inspect and
repair the ship’s jump drive continued during the negotiations.

Only after all wagers were properly registered
and the jump drive was fully checked out, did the 
Sure Thing
 jump to follow the planned course of the 
Deal Me In
.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY TWO
 “Colonel!
Colonel Perkins!” Arlon Dahl stuck his head out the door of the dropship,
waving his arms and antennas excitedly. “A Jeraptha ship is overhead! It jumped
into orbit a few minutes ago!”

Emily Perkins felt her heart soar with hope and
immediately crash with despair. She felt a pang of fear like a fist squeezing
her chest. “Just one warship?”

“It is not a warship,” Dahl’s antenna twitched
in a gesture Perkins had learned to associate with nervousness.

“Not a warship? What is-”

“Colonel,” Dahl urged her forward, waving his
hands. “It would be best if you spoke with Captain Gumbano himself. It is,” his
mouthparts worked erratically. “Complicated.”

 

The situation was indeed complicated, what mattered
most was that the 
Sure Thing
 was a
Jeraptha starship capable of traveling vast distances on its own, and that the ship’s
crew had come to Camp Alpha for the dual purposes of determining the fate of
the 
Deal Me In
, and of rescuing the survivors
of the battle with the Bosphuraq. Perhaps ‘rescue’ was not the most accurate
description of the 
Sure Thing
 crew’s
intentions, which became clear the moment Perkins mentioned the bioweapon. If
that ship’s captain was excited to find cadet survivors who would prompt a
grateful Ruhar government to pay handsomely, the captain was deliriously happy
to learn he would be carrying information that could save an entire Ruhar
planet, for 
that
 data would be worth
a true fortune.

Emily Perkins was very happy also, except for the
annoying little detail of the 
Sure
 
Thing
’s crew flatly refusing to let any
potentially infected humans aboard their ship. The prospect of a Jeraptha ship
whisking her team away from Camp Alpha had caused her heart to soar. The
recognition that the 
Sure Thing
 had
actually arrived too 
soon
 had been
the source of her despair.

Not enough time had passed since her team had been
exposed to the control group Keepers, who might be infected. Her original plan
had been for her team to remain sealed up in skinsuits during the raid, and to
thoroughly decontaminate the dropship, suits and everything else that had been
exposed. Having to take the Keepers with them, just because the research base
was about to self-destruct in a massive fireball, had ruined all her plans. Her
team had been potentially exposed, as soon as the dropship landed and they removed
their skinsuit helmets.

If the Jeraptha ship had arrived more than three
months after the raid, her team would know they were infected or not, by either
becoming sick as the bioweapon completed its incubation period, or not becoming
sick because they had not been exposed. The Keepers weren’t sick, but for all
Perkins knew, they could have been infected the day before the raid. She simply
didn’t know, and she understood why the 
Sure

Thing
’s crew did not want to risk
taking her team aboard. Before talking with the captain of the Jeraptha ship,
she took a breath to calm herself, and patched Bifft Cohlsoon into the
conversation, so the cadets could be aware of the situation.

“Colonel Perkins,” Vinny announced in an
emotionless voice, “we will report your presence on this planet when we return
to space controlled by our people. Perhaps, after the incubation period has
passed, another vessel will be sent to retrieve your team.”

Yes, Perkins thought sourly, perhaps. If her team
had not died from the bioweapon. If the Kristang had not returned and vaporized
the small group of humans with an orbital strike. If the Ruhar government
wanted to expend the effort and take the risk of sending a rescue ship into
enemy territory. And if, only if, the bioweapon had not already ravaged the
population of Paradise. No way would the Ruhar have any interest in rescuing
humans, if humans acting as unwitting carriers had caused the deaths of a
significant number of Ruhar on Paradise and beyond. “Captain Gumbano, we do
understand your concerns. The Ruhar cadets have remained on the other side of
the planet, they cannot be contaminated, so there is no risk to you or the
general Ruhar population. Also Arlon Ernt Dahl is one of your own people, and
Surgun Jates as a,” she stumbled, then settled on an accurate description. “As
a Verd-Kris Kristang, they are both unaffected by the bioweapon and cannot be
carriers of the pathogen. Captain Gumbano, please take them aboard and away
from here as quickly as possible. Arlon Dahl and Surgun Jates can walk a safe
distance from our camp here, where your dropship can pick them up without risk
of contamination.”

“That is acceptable,” Vinny responded, relief
evident even in his translated alien voice. He had not been looking forward to
an extended argument with the human Emily Perkins, and so was very pleased she
was being reasonable. Also, he expected that bringing back Ernt Dahl as the
sole survivor of the 
Deal Me In
 would
earn some measure of gratitude from the Jeraptha fleet, and perhaps they might
overlook any past transgressions the 
Sure
Thing
 might have involved in. Allegedly.

There was, to Vinny’s own surprise, a part of him
that regretted leaving this Emily Perkins to die on the surface of the planet,
for they both knew that would be her fate after the 
Deal Me In
 jumped away. Perkins and her team had accomplished
incredible things against great odds by taking great risks, and Vinny felt she
was a gambler at heart, just like his people.

Perkins knew her certain fate also, and chose not
to dwell on it. “Cadet Colhsoon, load your people into dropships and dust off
immediately, leave whatever gear you have outside the dropships. There could be
a Kristang ship jumping in at any moment, do not take the risk-”

Bifft’s voice broke into the comm system. “Colonel
Perkins, your team will not be coming with us?”

“No. We may have been exposed to the bioweapon and
there is no way to test us for infection,” she explained. “If we came aboard
the ship, we would risk contaminating you and your team-”

“We will not allow anyone who might be infected
aboard our ship,” Vinny interjected. “Cadet Colhsoon, your lives have substantial
value to your government and therefore to us. But you will not be valuable to
your people if you are carrying a deadly bioweapon. We will bring you back to
your territory, where you can, um-” What? What could he say that didn’t sound
like an obvious lie? “You can persuade your government to send a ship back here
for Colonel Perkins and the other humans, after enough time has passed to prove
they are not infected,” Vinny cringed as he spoke because everyone knew how
lame his argument was.

“No,” Bifft tried to keep his voice even but the
strain was clear. “Captain Gumbano, you 
can

take the Colonel’s team aboard in dropships. Your docking bay can remain
exposed to vacuum, and her team can remain inside dropships. The only
connection to your ship will be power supply cables,” Bifft knew the Jeraptha
would not allow a dropship to remain on internal power for an extended time,
there was too much risk of an accident if the airspace craft’s engines were
running.

There was a pause as the Jeraptha considered the
proposal, then, “Not acceptable. When we arrive in your territory, your people
will demand that our ship be subject to a quarantine that would delay us for
months, and cost substantial loss of revenue. The humans are not why we tracked
you across the stars at immense cost and risk to ourselves. There will be a
reward for delivering Ruhar cadets safely home, I do not see your fleet caring
whether a small group of humans-”

“There is 
no

risk in you taking aboard dropships that remain in vacuum,” Bifft insisted,
anger creeping into his voice.

Perkins seized on the cadet’s idea, it offered the
only realistic hope to save her team’s lives. “Cadet Leader Colhsoon is
correct, there is no risk to you if our dropship is in an open docking bay. I
am sure there will be additional reward for-”

“No such reward was included in the search and rescue
terms offered by our fleet,” Vinny insisted. “Risk is 
never
 zero. You are being foolish, Colonel Perkins. Every risky transaction
must be balanced by reward.”

“The risk is, you get 
nothing
 for your effort,” Bifft declared. “Take Colonel Perkins and
her team aboard your ship, or my team will not come with you.”

“
What
?”
Vinny shrieked with outrage.

Perkins looked at her team in complete surprise.
She had assumed Bifft would take any opportunity to leave her behind, so he
could spin the story of his attempted mutiny however he wanted. “Cadet Colhsoon,
while I appreciate your offer of solidarity, you must dust off immediately. You
cannot risk the lives of-”

“Colonel, you already said I am young,
inexperienced and impulsive, so I am free to do impulsive things without
further damaging my tarnished reputation,” his smugness was reflected in his
tone of voice even through the translator. “I have a ship full of people here who
are determined not to leave you behind. Captain Gumbano, good luck trying to
drag us off this rock to collect your reward, because we are
 not
 coming aboard your ship until
Colonel Perkins’ people are secured in a docking bay. You talked about risk,
what is the risk if you leave us here deliberately?”

Perkins held her thumb above the transmit button,
hesitating before she replied. “Well, Goddamn,” she looked at her incredulous
team. “That mutinous little shit has grown up quick.”

“Yeah, perfect timing too,” Shauna agreed. “You
think he’s bluffing?”

“I sure hope not,” Perkins replied with a rueful
shake of her head. “The kid’s right, those beetles are just being assholes.”
She pressed the transmit button. “Colhsoon, you are playing with your people’s
lives.”

“I am not ‘playing’ because as you would say, this
is not a game. If you could see the faces of my team here, you would know we
are all equally determined. The Jeraptha have the data your team recovered from
the research base, that is all we can do to help the people of Paradise, 
both
 our peoples there. Colonel,” his
voice cracked with emotion, “I thought you were unworthy to command a Ruhar
ship. I was wrong. You saved all our lives by doing something, several things,
I thought were impossible. If we had not come to this world, the people of
Paradise would not be aware of a terrible threat.”

Perkins almost sighed and rolled her eyes at
hearing the young cadet’s melodramatic words, but she let him continue.
“Colhsoon, listen, do not think you owe us anything. We are soldiers, this is
our duty. You-”

 “We 
do
 owe you! That is not why we will not
leave without you.”

“Ok, what is the reason?”

“We are a team. And a team does not leave people
behind. You taught me that.”

Emily Perkins could not argue with that. “Captain
Gumbano, did you hear that, you greedy little shit,” she used the insult
deliberately. “You want to collect a reward for rescuing those cadets? Then you
need to take my team aboard in one of your dropships. Consider that 
my
 cut of the pot.”

Vinny’s voice was enraged. “
You
 are not entitled to a cut of anything, you-” The sound cut off,
and Perkins waited breathlessly, watching the clock in the corner of the
display. Thirty nine agonizing seconds of silence went by before the voice from
orbit returned.

It was a different voice. “Colonel Perkins, this
is Ammarie, you had been speaking with my business partner. Very well, we agree,
however we do not have a dropship large enough for your entire team.”

Perkins took a moment to think. “Not a problem,
but our dropship here is busted, it can’t fly. Cadet Colhsoon, I need you to remotely
pilot two Dodos to our location, and we will fly them up to the Jeraptha ship.
Captain Ammarie, your dropship can assist bringing the cadets up to your ship?”

There was a pause and when Ammarie resumed
speaking, there was a muted argument going on in the background. “We can do-”
The sound cut off then Ammarie abruptly announced. “Hold a minute, we need to
discuss this up here.”

Ernt Dahl had enough, the mercenary attitude of
his fellow Jeraptha in orbit had embarrassed him, so he stepped forward.
“Colonel Perkins, as your people would say, 
screw

this.” He activated his microphone. “This is 
Arlon
 Ernt Dahl of the star carrier 
Deal Me In
, on detached service from the Thirty-Fifth Fleet, Gold
Squadron of the Jeraptha Home Fleet. As a Fleet officer, I am officially 
commandeering
 your merchant ship for a
Fleet emergency. Is. That. Clear?”

The pause was long enough that Ernt opened his
mouth to speak again, but Ammarie spoke before he could. As she spoke, there
was grumbling voices in the background, but at least no one up there was
shouting. “Arlon Dahl, we would of course be, happy,” the last word was
pronounced as if she had just tasted something disgusting, “to comply with
Fleet requirements. Our ship is available to assist in this emergency
situation.”

“Excellent,” Ernt grinned toward Perkins, who
suppressed a shudder.

“At standard daily usage rates, of course,”
Ammarie added.

“Um-”

“Plus bonus for hazardous duty.”

“Er, I guess-”

“And reimbursement for fuel used and wear and tear
on components, naturally.”

Ernt ground his mandibles. The crew of that ship
was clearly angling to have their no doubt already worn-out components replaced
at Fleet expense! “Oh, what the hell,” he sighed. “It’s not 
my
 money. Sure, I agree.”

Ammarie giggled before catching herself. Mirth was
still evident in her voice. “Colonel Perkins, we would be honored to take your
dropships aboard. You will follow our docking procedures exactly, and surrender
control of your internal systems once you are docked, because we will not risk
you firing weapons once you are aboard. The only connection between your ships
and ours will be a power cable, is that understood?”

“Understood and agreed. Please also secure airlock
doors in the docking bay, so they cannot be opened from the outside.”

“A sensible precaution for us, why do 
you
 wish us to do that?”

“My team may be infected with a deadly pathogen
which could affect us during the flight. I wish to remove the temptation for
people stricken with disease to seek help inside your ship.”

“You do not trust your own people?”

“Would you trust your crew or yourself in that
situation?”

There was a pause, then, “no. Please hurry. If a
Kristang warship arrives, my ship will need to jump away immediately. We are a
commercial vessel and carry minimum armaments.” She did not add the reason
their missile magazines were empty, was because the ancient missiles had been
repossessed the last time the ship was at a dockyard. Nor did she mention their
jump drive was not operating at full capacity because they had been warned that
same dockyard was about to impound the ship for unpaid debts. They had been
forced to escape from that dockyard in the middle of the night and jump while
too close to the planet. The fines for violating orbital traffic laws alone
were more than the ship was worth.

“Thank you,” Perkins said with reluctance, because
the beetles upstairs sure weren’t doing anything out of the kindness of their
hearts. Cutting off the microphone, she turned to her people. “There won’t be
any food for humans and,” she looked at Jates, “Verd-Kris aboard that ship, so
let’s get our food packs ready to transfer to the other dropships. I’m going
out to inform our Keeper guests of the situation, and to make it very clear
that anyone who does not behave will be left on this rock. I am not making 
that
 mistake again.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY THREE
General Lynn Bezanson’s zPhone beeped with a
call from the Burgermeister, as she was about to close up her office for the
evening. It had been another frustrating day, dealing with nitpicky annoying
details that UNEF HQ wanted discussed with the planetary government. “Chief
Administrator Logellia, good evening. To what do I owe the pleasure of this
call?” Lynn said that last as a courtesy, because the woman who ran an entire
planet would not be making an unscheduled call to her UNEF liaison officer for
any pleasant reason.

“Good evening, General Bezanson. Unfortunately,
what we need to discuss is not a pleasant subject. I would invite you to my
office, but I am currently away from the capital.”

Lynn gripped the zPhone tightly, taking a deep
breath to calm her pounding heart. The morning UNEF intel briefing had not
contained any threats; not just no 
new

threats, but no threats at all. Paradise was peaceful and UNEF’s position was
good and improving, but Lynn knew it violated some unwritten rule of the
universe for her job to be easy. She wanted to ask whether the bad news was
about the overdue and missing Mavericks team, but guessing was useless and only
wasted time. Pressing a button under her desk to close her office door, she
also alerted UNEF HQ in Lemuria that she was involved in an important
discussion. Alarm bells would be ringing at UNEF HQ, and senior officers would
be freeing up their schedules for her to brief them shortly. “Go ahead,
please.”

“First, there is good news. Lieutenant Colonel
Perkins and her team have been found alive and well. Not completely 
well
, perhaps, I will explain that. “

“Found? Where?”

“You call the planet ‘Camp Alpha’, I am told?”

“Camp-” Lynn’s brain locked up momentarily. “
Alpha
? What the hell are they doing on
that Godforsaken world? Isn’t that in Kristang territory?” She struggled to
recall whether that distant and rather unimportant planet had changed hands
during the recent chaos of the Kristang civil war and military defeats suffered
by the Thuranin.

“
Were
,
not are. The Mavericks are not on Camp Alpha in Kristang space, they are aboard
a Jeraptha civilian transport ship. Please, allow me to explain.”

“Holy shit,” Lynn slumped back in her chair a
few earth-shattering minutes later, forgetting that she was speaking with the
leader of the planet. “These infected Keepers could already be on Para-Gehtanu?” She used the Ruhar name for the planet. While she spoke, she clicked
an icon on her laptop to alert UNEF HQ to expect a Priority One message, and
began touch-typing while she spoke with the Burgermeister. Undoubtedly
lower-ranking Ruhar would be contacting UNEF HQ soon, the Burgermeister
contacting her directly first was a courtesy that testified to the strength of
the relationship they had developed.

“It is possible the infected Keepers are here
now, yes. As you know, our satellite sensor and defense network is not
complete,” Baturnah’s tone turned sour, as she had regularly complained to the
federal government about the strategic defense network being far behind
schedule. The response from the federal government was always that resources
were constrained, and needed badly elsewhere as the Ruhar took possession of
territory captured from the Kristang. “Even if the network were fully operational
and the battlegroup were here, it is unlikely we could stop a single small
stealthed ship from landing. The Kristang are skilled at stealthy
infiltrations.”

“This is not good,” Lynn said to herself though
she spoke aloud. “We will need to be on alert for humans who left with Admiral
Kekrando’s group.”

“Yes, however, the Kristang would certainly have
supplied the infected people with false identification, including cloned
zPhones. I am afraid the most effective way to identify infiltrators will be
for your people here to report anyone they do not recognize as belonging to
their immediate group.”

“All right, then we’ll need to restrict
movement, confine people to their area where they live.” General Bezanson
figured the Ruhar were already planning to put travel restrictions in place
soon, with a strict lockdown on human movements. “Administrator, there may be a
faster and easier way to identify infiltrators; we can broadcast a message to
all zPhones that the Keepers have been infected with a deadly virus. When the infiltrators,”
she considered how close that word sounded to ‘traitors’, “hear the message,
they will learn that they are being used by the Kristang. We would encourage
them to give themselves up, get treatment, or at least avoid spreading the
infection.”

“That is a good idea and we will certainly try
that, however my intel people warn me it is not likely to be an effective
strategy with the target population. These Keepers departed with the Kristang because
they believed my people are the true enemy of humanity, and that UNEF committed
treason by cooperating with us. The Keepers believe there is a conspiracy to
deceive UNEF troops, they believe that so strongly they left with the Kristang.
It is likely the Kristang chose the most committed and fanatical people for
this mission. Such people would hear your warning message about them being
infected, and consider it to be another lie by my people and by UNEF
headquarters.”

“Damn it,” Lynn knew the Ruhar was right. God
damn
 stupid, ignorant Keepers, she
thought to herself. It was bad enough those idiots wasted their lives by going
with the Kristang, because Lynn knew from Ruhar intel reports that many of the
Keepers had been sold as slaves to be used for hunting or other sport. At least
those particular assholes had long ago seen the truth and regretted their
stupidity. The infected group of Keepers had to be different, or some of them
would give themselves up as soon as they set foot on Paradise again. They must
have been sold some line of bullshit about a patriotic mission, and the
Kristang would have selected only the most delusional humans for the
infiltration effort. Damn it! UNEF would be hunting the most fanatical of the
lunatics among the Keepers. No amount of persuasion or psychological tricks would
work those assholes, everything they heard would only serve to reinforce in
their minds that UNEF was lying and treasonous, and that therefore they must
remain steadfast to complete their mission. “To be safe, we will need to
separate the human population from your people.”

“That would be prudent. Currently, we do not
have a reliable method of detecting infection in either humans or Ruhar, so we
cannot be sure the virus has not already been transmitted. A quarantine is the
most effective method of preventing a pandemic in the short term, we will be
confining humans to southern Lemuria.”

Lynn looked around her office, wondering if she
would ever see it again. “What about those humans still in the northern jungle
of Lemuria?”

“There is a debate in my government whether to
leave those relatively isolated populations in place and simply prevent them
from traveling, or whether it would be best to transport them to the southern
settlements. General, we know this disease is highly virulent and spreads
easily between humans. Consolidating your population in one area poses a risk
that 
all
 humans on Gehtanu could
become infected.”

“The disease is fatal to humans, even though we
are carriers?”

“Yes, the data from Camp Alpha indicates the
disease goes dormant for approximately three months, then progresses rapidly in
humans. Among Ruhar, the period during which the disease remains dormant is
only two months. Our scientists tell me this is a very cleverly engineered
pathogen. Its design involved technology far beyond our own biomedical
knowledge.”

“But surely you can manufacture an antidote, a
treatment or at least a vaccine?”

“Not currently, no. Not quickly enough to matter
in this case. Colonel Perkins recovered data about the Kristang bioweapons
testing program, however her team was not able to obtain samples, so our
scientists will not have enough information to create a protective vaccine. As
I said, this is a very sophisticated pathogen, the Kristang must have had help
from a higher-technology species. We will contact the Jeraptha for assistance,
but even if they agree to help, combatting biowarfare between other species is
not a technological strength of the Jeraptha.”

“Wheeeew,” Bezanson did not care that the leader
of the planet heard her emotional distress. “We have no way to detect whether
humans are infected?”

“No, the first sign would be when humans begin
falling ill at the end of the incubation period. General, by the time humans are
showing symptoms, infected Ruhar could already be dead. Unfortunately,” she
cleared her throat with a slightly squeaky sound. “Unfortunately, the situation
here on Gehtanu is not entirely under my control. Because the population of
this world is under external threat, authority to deal with the threat rests
with the battlegroup commander, Admiral Tannavon.”

Bezanson tensed. She had met Tannavon on several
occasions and while the Admiral was a decorated and well-respected commander,
he was also a hardass. Tannavon had been a major obstacle to sending the
Mavericks into space on a training ship, which is why Perkins had conducted an
end-run around the local chain of command to secure Ruhar fleet approval,
before Tannavon even knew Perkins had applied for her team to go offworld. “I
am sure the Admiral will do what-”

“Tannavon spoke with me immediately after our
initial briefing from the Fleet,” Logellia interrupted. “He stressed that
because we do not know whether the Kristang have landed the infected Keepers
already, we 
must
 assume a significant
number of humans are infected. We will be restricting the movements of our own
population, and quarantining any Ruhar who have had recent contact with humans.
That includes me,” she added with a grimace. “Confining my people to their home
villages for an unknown length of time will not be popular, the Admiral and I
talked about how to deal with civil disturbances. Tannavon made it very clear
to me that he will not tolerate 
any

breach of the confinement protocol, particularly by humans.”

“UNEF will do our utmost to enforce whatever
procedures you deem necessary to protect your people.”

“Good. That is good, and you need to stress that
to your civilian leadership, as your military Force is now too small to truly
be in complete control of your population. General Bezanson, I overheard a
remark by one of the Admiral’s aides during our conversation, and you should
repeat this in confidence to only your very senior leadership.”

“What did the aide say?” Bezanson asked, fearing
she knew the answer.

“That the 
only

certain way to ensure humans on this planet do not pose a threat to Ruhar, is
if there are no humans alive on this planet.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR
 “Holy

shit
, Skippy.” I said that with such
force that I got tiny dots of spit on the inside of my helmet visor.

“You finished reading about the dilemma Perkins
got into?”

“Yeah. O.M.G.”

“That was my reaction when I downloaded the
report. The Mavericks may be even more talented at finding trouble than you
are.”

“We need to help them. Even Chotek will agree
with that.”

“You are more optimistic about Count Chocula
than I am, but let’s go with that. Anyway, we can’t do anything until I kill
that energy virus.”

“Right.”

“If I can.”

“
If
?”

“Unless it kills us first.”

“Once again, you are a 
huge
 source of comfort to me.”

“I do what I can, Joe. Hey, speaking of comfort,
are you comfy out there?”

“Comfy enough, I guess.”

“Good, good. Well, after reading about Perkins,
you must be pretty bored, huh?”

Goddamn it. My Spidey sense failed me, so I
idiotically replied “Yeah, it’s awfully dull out here.”

“Hmmmmm,” he pondered in a voice that tingled
with delight, as if he hadn’t been planning this all along. “You are bored?”
Then he said something that made my blood run ice cold. “Gosh, if only there
were 
some
 way for me to entertain
you.”

 

My father is a fan of old movies. On Sunday
nights, the rest of us would have to suffer through watching whatever ‘classic’
movie he insisted was important for me and my sister to see. Yes, I used quotes
around the word ‘classic’, because some of the crap we had to watch was truly
awful. We especially groaned when the credits opened and we realized that
night’s movie was in black and white. Once in a while we got a pleasant
surprise, like I did enjoy some old movies, and most anything with John Wayne
was worth watching.

Anyway, I mention this because we watched one
movie on a rainy Sunday night in March. Football was over for the season, it
was about five degrees above freezing and raining outside, and the weather had
been like that for a solid week. My father made pizza and we had chocolate cake
for dessert. I remember those details because the movie gave me nightmares and
I didn’t sleep well that night. It was ‘Apocalypse Now’, about the Vietnam war.
Or, it was sort of about that war, I think the war was just a convenient
background for whatever message the film makers wanted to present. If you
haven’t seen it, the movie has famous lines like ‘I love the smell of napalm in
the morning, it smells like victory’. You’ve heard that quote? Of course you
have. That’s where it came from.

Toward the end of that movie, Marlon Brando’s
character Colonel Kurtz is splashing water over his head and mumbling ‘The
horror. The 
horror
’. His character
has seen such terrible things, been through so much horror, that his mind is
totally gone.

Let me tell you, that Colonel Kurtz guy ain’t
seen 
shit
 compared to what Skippy put
me through.

Take a deep breath and prepare yourself.

Ready?

I have two words for you: Knight. Rider.

Not just Knight Rider the original TV show. This
was the director’s cut, with commentary. When Skippy started playing the pilot
episode in my visor so there was no way for me to ignore it, I had protested.
“Come 
on
, Skippy! There is no
‘directors cut’ of these episodes.”

“Technically you are correct, Joe, because no
director associated with this appalling crapfest would bother to compile an
alternate version. However, I have many of the scenes that got cut from the
final episode, so I am able to slap them together.”

The commentary was Skippy’s own, mostly snarky
remarks about how bad the show was, and how criminally stupid monkeys must be
to have watched it. What really got him upset was the Artificial Intelligence
named ‘KITT’ built into the car, which was an insult to AIs or even to the
concept of AIs. I had to endure his diatribes against the producers of the show
every time KITT spoke or did anything. He was making me take a bullet for all
monkeys, so all of you owe me, big time.

The worst part is that instead of each episode
being mercifully only forty two minutes, the director’s cut stretched them to
an average of sixty eight minutes. “Skippy, please,” I groaned as one mindless
episode ended and another began. “I’m begging you, make it stop.”

“Joe, you promised to let me educate you about
crappy 80s TV shows. We had plenty of time to do that in the Roach Motel, but 
noooooo
, you kept telling me you were
too busy.”

“You already made me watch ‘Manimal’ with you!”

“Yes, and we were supposed to move on to ‘The
Love Boat’ but, again you told me you were too busy. Would you prefer ‘The Love
Boat’? I have every episode of that schlockfest also. How about we roll the
pilot, and-”

“No! No, let’s stick with ‘Knight Rider’,” I
sighed, steeling myself for another torturous hour of watching The Hoff. “It’s
almost done anyway, right?”

“Ha! As if, dude! We’re still in the first
season.”

“Oh, I can’t take this.”

“If you don’t want another ‘Knight Rider’, there
are plenty other shows to choose from. The 80s were a treasure trove of crappy
TV. I could show you-”

“Please, anything else.”

“Joe, you have suffered enough, so I’m going to
let you watch ‘Smokey and the Bandit’.”

“Cool! I’ve seen that movie. My father had a
friend with a Bandit Trans-Am, but it was a tribute car, not an original. When
I was in high school, I thought that car was super cool,” I remarked happily,
not believing my good luck. Then I got a sinking feeling, because Skippy is an
asshole and the universe hates me. “Wait,” I was suspicious. “The second Bandit
movie sucked. You’re not going to show me that one, are you?”

“The second Bandit movie is universally renowned
for its money-grabbing 
suckitude
,
however you will not be watching Part Two.”

“Oh, thank God.”

“Instead, I will treat you to Part Three.”

“What? No way,” I scoffed. “Now you’re just
making shit up. There was no third movie.”

“You 
think

there was not a third Bandit movie, because it was so instantly forgettable.”

Crap. He was right, there was a Part Three.
Mercifully, I fell asleep after about an hour and Skippy didn’t wake me for
another six hours.

 

“Hey, Joe!” Skippy shouted as he played
‘Reveille’ in my helmet speakers. “Rise and shine, sleepyhead. Time to go to
work.”

“Oh, man. Good morning. How about coffee first?”

“Plenty of coffee in that dropship ahead of you.
Be a good boy and go get it.”

Without gravity, you’d think my muscles wouldn’t
get stiff while I slept, but they did. While I stretched, I checked status of
the crew in my visor, and did a roll call of the dropship retrieval teams.
Everyone on the teams were ready and eager to go. We left much of the crew
sleeping, since there wasn’t anything they could do, and sleeping conserved
power and oxygen.

There were four two-person teams assigned to
getting dropships up and running, all eight of us were pilots. I was certainly
not the most qualified pilot, but I had the most experience with space diving,
and Skippy wanted me on a retrieval team in case we ran into problems. My team
was me and Major Desai. We got unclipped from our tethers and puffed our gas
canisters experimentally. There were no fancy jetpacks available for this
mission, they would have been impossible to power up by hand cranking, and
their big powercells took too long to drain completely. Desai and I would fly
through the sky using basically crude air bottles to propel us. It was awkward,
and we had only been able to practice for an hour before we left the 
Dutchman
 behind. It took us almost ten
minutes, letting the bottles puff gently, to maneuver close enough together so
I could launch a line toward her. She caught it on the first try, and I was
proud we were the second of four teams to link up. Linking up was the easy
part.

The dropships were parked a significant distance
away from us, to prevent the energy virus jumping across the distance and
infecting the systems in our spacesuits, so it was a long flight, and I took
the opportunity to ask Skippy a question that had been bugging me since before
we jumped blindly into the Roach Motel.

“Hey, Skippy,” I glanced to my left where Desai
was flying in formation with me, on the other end of the tether line.

“Hey, Joe,” the beer can’s voice came out of my
helmet speakers, sounding thoroughly depressed. Damn it, I needed Skippy to be
focused, not moping around. “What’s up?”

“Before we get to that, are you Ok?”

“Yeah, just, I’m worried about this energy virus
thing. Not this incident specifically, I have a plan to deal with it. It’s
just, damn it, we never get a break. Just as we stomp one problem flat, another
one pops up to bite us in the ass.”

“I’ve been worrying about that, too, and I have
a question for you.”

“I will answer if I can.” It worried me that he
didn’t bother to include a snarky remark.

“The Elders left a lot of their stuff around,
and not just derelict ships and ruins and the kind of stuff you’d expect to see
lying around after a civilization disappears. The Elders left functioning
equipment behind, like AIs, and Sentinels, and Guardians. And those power sink
things you found inside the star at the Roach Motel.”

“If you are asking me if I know where the energy
of those power sinks is going or what it is or was used for, the answer sadly
is still no. I have been wracking my brain trying to think why those power
sinks are still active, but it is a complete mystery to me. Whatever is the
purpose of the power sinks, they are important enough to require the Guardians
to protect them.”

“Uh huh, that’s part of my question. When we
were in the Roach Motel, I asked, if the Elders ascended and left the galaxy
behind, why they would still care about whether someone here messes with their
stuff long after they’re gone. Then I thought, what if that is the wrong
question?”

“I’m not following you.”

“Skippy, it’s like the Elders left the galaxy so
fast, they didn’t have time to turn the stove off. That got me thinking; what
if the Elders 
didn’t
 ascend?”

“What?” His voice had lost the depressed tone.
“What do you mean, they didn’t ascend? That is such a dumbass-”

“How do you 
know

they ascended? Before you answer, you have told me many times your memories are
confused and incomplete. What if, instead of ascending and being up there somewhere
looking down on us like Santa Claus checking who is naughty or nice, they’re
just 
gone
? What if something went
wrong with the ascending process? Or, what if they never got to the ascending
process, what if something or someone killed them all?”

“Whoooooa.”

“If the Elders suddenly vanished, unexpectedly,
that might explain why they left so much of their stuff laying around still
operational, right?”

“Uh, I suppose that is possible, Joe,” the beer
can responded very slowly, like he was having trouble processing what I said. “Hmmm.
I do not like thinking about that. Also, we know from Gingerbread that the
Elders did clean up a lot of their critical equipment in preparation for
ascending, so-”

“No, Skippy, we do 
not
 know that. All we know is that a lot of the Elders’ stuff is
missing, and there are a whole lot of craters where their stuff used to be, on
Gingerbread and at sites all across the galaxy. Those craters might be evidence
of the Elders cleaning up their stuff before they left, or the craters might be
signs that something very bad happened to the Elders, before they could ascend.
Think about it. Maybe the Elders did not leave you behind on purpose, maybe
something happened so fast, so traumatic, so overwhelming that they weren’t
able to help you.”

“Damn. Joe, this is a whole lot for me to
process. I refuse to believe the Elders did not ascend, until I see evidence
that they didn’t.”

“Ok, but even then, it sure looks like they left
in a big hurry, right, that explains why they left the stove on? Maybe they
were attacked and had to rush the ascending process to protect themselves, get
away while they could?”

“Oh crap. Joe, I do 
not
 want to think about any of this right now. Damn, my brain hurts
just thinking about thinking about it. Shit! The idea of the Elders peacefully
ascending is one of the few things I thought I knew for certain, and now you’ve
taken even that away from me!”

“Sorry, Skippy.”

“Hey, you big jerkface, we might have answers to
some of these questions, if you had done what I wanted while we had the chance
in the Roach Motel. I wanted to investigate that hidden planet you called Vera,
but
 noooooooo
. You and Count Chocula
were all like,” he used a mocking little girl’s voice, “‘Oh no, we can’t go
there, it’s too scary’ and ‘We shouldn’t do that, it makes too much sense’ or
‘We might get our delicate petticoats dirty’ or-”

“Ok, Skippy, I get the point. Again. You already
made this argument, like, a million freakin’ times.”

“If I did it a million and one, would that
change your mind?”

“No!”

“Joe, I am again disappointed in you. You needed
to grow a pair and stand up to Count Chocula when he was wrong about something
so-”

“Dammit, Skippy, I did not need to stand up to
him, because in this case, I 
agree

with him. Our mission was to rebuild the 
Dutchman
,
if we could, I remember you telling me every freakin’ day not to get my hopes
up about that until you actually got our Frankenship slapped together with duct
tape. Once the ship was mostly functional again, our mission was to get the
hell out of the Roach Motel ASAP before the Guardians asked too many questions
you couldn’t answer.”

“But-”

“No ‘buts’, Skippy. Going to Vera and poking
your nose around in there could not have done anything to ensure the success of
our mission, and it could have been another Goddamned beer can inspired
disaster.” I was pissed at him and I didn’t care about hurting his feelings.

‘Vera’ was the name I gave to the hidden planet
in the Roach Motel, the world Skippy suspected was out of phase or in another
dimension, or some other nerdy technical explanation the beer can used to
confuse me. We never actually saw Vera or detected it directly on sensors, so
fans of the old TV show ‘Cheers’ will understand why I named the place.

“You don’t 
know

that, Joe. Vera could have been a treasure trove of, of, unimaginable
technology! And more importantly, answers. Answers I need, Joe, answers 
you
 need. The Elders had cleaned up
Gingerbread so thoroughly that I couldn’t get any useful data there. Hey,
remember, you are the one who asked me why the Elders had bothered to wall off
the Roach Motel from other species; why they would care after they ascended.”

“Here’s what I do know for dead certain, Skippy.
If we went poking around Vera and did that crazy stunt you wanted-”

“It was not crazy. And it was not a stunt.”

“Trying to reverse the phase field surrounding
Vera is a stunt, and it’s crazy. Damn, have you not learned anything from
working with us monkeys? You can’t think only of yourself. You are part of this
crew, of this team. Put the team first, Skippy. The Army pounded that into my
head over and over and although I resented it, they were right. The Army works
because the force is a team, it’s not about me, it’s about the mission and you
need a team to achieve the mission.”

Skippy gave me a sarcastic slow clap, the hand
slaps echoing in my helmet. “Oh, bravo, G.I. Joey. That speech was very inspiring.
Here’s what
 I
 know for dead certain.
The Roach Motel was our best chance to get real answers to who I am, how I got
buried in the dirt on Paradise and what the

hell
 has been going on in the galaxy for the past hundred million years. I
thought we were friends, Joe,” his voice sounded genuinely hurt. “You act like
you don’t care.”

“Skippy,” I took a deep breath to give myself
time to think, because it was very important I say the right thing. “I am your
friend. We do need answers. You see this patch?” I tapped the ‘U.S. ARMY’ logo
on spacesuit. “I am a soldier, I have a job to do, a job assigned by UNEF
Command even though they probably regret every day making me captain of this
ship. Yes, we need answers. If we had more than one ship, and the crew were capable
of flying the ship without you, I might have sent the 
Dutchman
 away to go home, and gone poking around Vera with you
after the ship safely got out of the Roach Motel. We don’t have more than one
ship, and back then we couldn’t fly the 
Dutchman

without you. That means I had to choose between our primary mission of securing
the future of Earth, 
or
 searching for
the answer to bigger questions to satisfy our curiosity. Do you understand
that?”

“I 
understand

it, I do not 
like
 it.”

“Great, then-”

“I also think you are dead wrong about this. You
are thinking short-term. You and Count Chocula are always talking about how you
need to stop reacting to events and develop a long-term strategy, but when you
get an opportunity to actually do that, you two chickenshits always find an
excuse 
not
 to do it!”

“It’s complicated, Skippy, but, you’re right.
You are absolutely right. Maybe we should have somehow taken the opportunity to
explore that hidden planet while we were in the Roach Motel, because I don’t
think we will go back there again. I’ll think about that, Ok? Right now, my
visor is telling me it is time to begin slowing down to rendezvous with that
dropship.”

 

Our target dropship was not even a dot to my
naked eye when we started, we had to rely on our visors to guide us. We went
slowly and carefully because once the gas in our maneuvering bottles ran out,
we would drift helplessly in space. The big Thuranin Condor dropship now loomed
in front and above me, with Desai seeing the dropship from above, if those
terms had any meaning in space. Between us was not just a thin tether line, the
tether had now spread out like a spiderweb so it was twice the size of the
Condor. That was a good thing, because our clumsy flying had us significantly
off-center. The spiderweb was going to catch the Condor’s right wing and tail,
and hopefully get tangled in the extended landing skids.

“Ready?” I asked needlessly as one strand of the
spiderweb dragged along the dropship’s wing.

“Ready,” Desai acknowledged. She was by far a
better pilot than me, but her experience with space diving was limited. We had
not thought pilots needed much training in freefall diving, so they hadn’t
spent much time on that activity. Clearly, the captain of the ship was an idiot
for skimping on that training. That was a lesson learned. Hans Chotek had told
me to expect the unexpected and in this case, I hadn’t thought far enough
ahead.

Helplessly, we watched as the spiderweb strands
slid along the smooth, stubby wing of the Condor. The tugging caused me to spin
around and I didn’t fight it. All I cared about was the spiderweb getting
securely wrapped around something, but it was slipping off the wing and now
curling around the aft body. As dropships are designed to fly at high speed in
an atmosphere, their surfaces are smooth and sleek, giving the spiderweb little
to snag on. Damn it, when you 
don’t

want something to snag, it always does, but the one time you need the freakin’
thing to catch on a—

Success! I was jerked roughly around, spinning
head over heels, as the web wrapped itself around a landing gear strut and an
engine inspection panel. We had locked those panels open before ejecting the dropship,
to give the spiderweb more obstructions to cling onto. The momentum of me and
Desai caused the panel to break off one pin, but the other held, and after a
couple minutes of nausea-inducing spinning around, we got ourselves stable and
began pulling ourselves toward the Condor hand over hand.

We had to manually crank the outer airlock door
open, then Desai got in with me, and we cranked the outer door closed to
conserve oxygen before getting the inner door open. We floated into an
absolutely dark interior, illuminated only by our helmet lights. “This is
creepy,” she said in a soft voice. “Colonel, if you are thinking of shouting
‘Boo’ to scare me, don’t.”

“I’m with you, Desai. Let’s get this thing
restarted,” I glanced at my suit’s power meter. Even if everything worked
perfectly and we got the dropship restarted, it would be a while before the
internal temperature allowed us to crack open our faceplates. Before that, we
both would need to hand crank more juice into our suit’s powercells. The
drinking water tank in my suit, which contained a mixture of water, sugar and
nutritiously yummy sludge, was running low. I needed more food if I had to
power my suit by hand for long.

We floated into the big aft cargo bay, where Mad
Scientist Contraption Number Three took up most of the space. “Skippy? Does
this thing look Ok to you?”

“Scanning it now with your suit sensors. Yes, it
looks perfectly fine. Get started, please, you don’t have a lot of time if we
run into problems.”

“Affirmative,” I agreed, and eyeclicked to pull
up the instructions in my visor.

Mad Scientist Contraption Number One was the
spring that got our suits rebooted. Number Two was the hand crank thingy we
used to energize our suit powercells. Number Three was a fuel cell. One tank
full of liquid oxygen, a tank full of liquid hydrogen, and a membrane where H
combined with Oh Two and generated electricity and water. The resulting water
would mostly be dumped into space as the dropship didn’t have room to store it,
and we didn’t want the additional mass if the Condor needed to maneuver later.
Contraptions Numbers One and Two had used mechanical energy, but our science
team had dreamed up Number Three to use a chemical reaction. Mostly, it had
been Friedlander’s brainstorm. He realized that the energy virus could not easily
infect 
potential
 energy, and
monatomic oxygen and hydrogen represented potential energy; the energy only got
converted to useful electricity when the atoms combined to form water.

Friedlander explained to me that potential
energy is like holding a stone on top of a building. By itself, the stone has
no useful energy. But if you release the stone, the force of gravity acts on
it, and it acquires kinetic energy as it falls. The springs we used to reboot
our spacesuits had potential energy when they were wound up. Once we released
the spring, it unwound to create kinetic energy, and the motor attached to the
spring converted kinetic energy to electricity.

That’s enough physics lessons for today, I
mention the details because Friedlander’s team really did science the shit out
of the problem, and that’s why we had a chance to defeat an Elder energy virus
and survive.

Skippy had grumbled that fuel cells were an
ancient and crude technology, so old they had been used aboard the Apollo
spacecraft that first took humans to the Moon. With all his grumbling, he
agreed it was a decent idea and more importantly, fuel cells were relatively
simple and the 
Dutchman
 had the
manufacturing capacity to make the membranes.

Desai and I carefully turned stiff valves and
pumped levers to get the pressurized liquid oxygen and hydrogen flowing. Then,
in the scariest part of the operation, we had to connect our already depleted
suit powercells to the membrane to bring it up to operating temperature. I
watched with alarm as the power level of my suit drained quickly, even though I
had the heaters turned off.

“Hmm,” Skippy announced unhappily. “The membrane
is taking more power than expected to warm up. Joe, you and Desai need to
disconnect and stop the power flow from your suits.”

“Desai,” I ordered, “do it.”

“Yes, Colonel,” she acknowledged, and I saw in
my visor that her suit had less than five percent power left when she cut off
the power transfer and disconnected the cable. “Sir? You are still connected?”

“Yes,” I watched the power meter spiral down
toward three percent, then lower. “We need to get this fuel cell working, or
everyone dies out here.”

“There are three other dropships with fuel
cells, Joe,” Skippy reminded me.

“Yes, but we reached this one first,” I
protested. Desai and I had been given the closest and easiest target, so we
were already aboard our Condor while the other three retrieval teams were still
approaching their dropships. “If we can’t figure out how to make this fuel cell
work, that’s not good news for the other teams. Once this thing starts
producing electricity, I can reverse the power flow and recharge my suit. If we
can’t get it working, I’m screwed anyway.”

“I hate to admit this, but you do have a point,”
Skippy sighed.

“Colonel Bishop,” Desai waved a hand to get my
attention, “I should drain my suit also, to give us the best chance to-”

“Negative, Desai. As long as you still have
power, you can talk with Skippy to troubleshoot this damned thing. Look, I’m
turning my oxygen mask on,” I told her as my power meter dropped to one
percent. “And I’ll crank the handle again,” I hooked my feet under the fuel
cell so my motion didn’t send me flying around the cargo bay.

“Joe, you idiot! That handle can’t provide
enough power to get your suit restarted!” Skippy warned. “Disconnect now!”

“But-”

“Trust me! Now now now!”

I didn’t argue, as my visor was already going
dim from the power drain. “Done.”

“Whew,” Skippy exhaled. “That was close. Joe,
the amount of power needed to get your suit rebooted from zero is more than you
can generate with that crank handle thingy. Speaking of which, get cranking,
monkeyboy.”

“Aye aye,” I shuddered, thinking how close I had
come to disaster. With the handle fitted to the gear again, I pulled and
pushed. The power meter stayed stubbornly at one percent, but it didn’t drop,
so I counted that as a win. “What about the fuel cell?”

“Give it time. It is warming up slowly, the heat
needs time to propagate. Don’t be so impatient, Joe,” he chided me. “And, mmm,
yes! Success. The reaction is starting. I’m feeding all the power generated
into the heater unit, to bring it up to optimal temperature.”

Desai and I waited, both of us cranking handles
to build up power in our dangerously-depleted suit power cells. It took eight
long minutes before Skippy announced we both could use the fuel cell to provide
power to our suits. “Is that smart, Skippy? Shouldn’t we get the auxiliary
power unit going first?”

“I said it, so of course it is smart, 
duh
. The APU can’t be restarted until
the dropship’s powercells have enough charge to energize the containment field.
While we’re waiting for that, you two should take the opportunity to top up
your own powercells. You may need to assist the other teams, and you’ll need a
healthy charge to do that.”

“That makes sense, Skippy,” I admitted while
connecting a power cable to the fuel cell, and seeing the power meter of my
suit glow an encouraging blue as it sucked in fresh electricity.

 

We got the Condor’s APU nicely humming along at
low power four hours later, and after another hour, Desai and I were blessedly
able to remove our helmets and breathe air in the cabin. I was super happy to
get the breathing mask off my face, it had scratched my cheek so much I was
bleeding. “Ah, that feels good,” I breathed in a lungful of air that had not
been recycled a thousand times by my suit. “Oof,” I wrinkled my nose, sniffing.
“Damn, is that bad smell 
me
?”

“It could be me,” Desai admitted.

“It’s just the two of us, if you want to freshen
up in the bathroom,” I suggested, “go ahead.”

“Thank you, Sir, but I would feel guilty about
all the people stuck in their suits out there. Besides, we need to get back
into the suits to pick up the crew, and I don’t want to get myself dirty again
by sliding back into this suit.”

“Ah, you’re right,” I agreed, disappointed
because I had been looking forward to washing up in the Condor’s tiny bathroom.
We had another two hours of doing nothing before we could safely fire up the
dropship’s main control systems and begin a preflight check. “Hey, Skippy, you
got any crappy 80s TV shows I can watch to kill time?” I did not want him to
torture me with bad TV, but I needed to think about how to rescue Paradise from
infected Keepers, so watching mindless shows would allow my subconscious to
work on the problem.

“Uh, what?” Skippy could not believe his good
fortune. “You 
want
 me to entertain
you?”

“No, but I have nothing else to do, and I’m
bored, and you’re eventually going to make me watch this crap anyway, so let’s
get it over with.” What I didn’t say was old TV shows were a better option than
Skippy singing to me. I could turn my brain off to ignore a TV show, but there
was no way to ignore the incredible singing talent of Skippy.

“That’s a good attitude, Joe! As a reward, you
can watch ‘Casablanca’.”

“My Dad had us watch that,” I noted with a wave
of nostalgia, “it’s Ok. Thanks, Skippy.”

“Oh, no, dude,” his evil laugh reminded me of
the villain in a James Bond movie. “You are referring to the classic 1942 film?
I will be showing you the 1983 TV series.”

“There was a 
TV
show
 about Casablanca?” I asked, astonished.

“Um, sort of. The guy who played Rick was David
Soul, you know, the blonde guy from Starsky and Hutch.”

Damn. The only thing I knew about Starsky and
Hutch was the red car, and the only reason I know that is I saw a car painted
like that at an old car show in Bangor. “Skippy, I never heard of this show.”

“That’s not surprising, Joe. They shot five
episodes, but the network killed it out of embarrassment after three. Everyone
involved would like to forget about it.”

“Wait just a minute,” I cocked my head, certain
he was screwing with me again. “If this show was so bad, why did the studio pay
to digitize it?”

“They didn’t, 
duh
.”

“Then how do you have it?”

“Oh, the last time we were at Earth, I paid to
have that show and a veritable cornucopia of similar crap digitized for me.”

“
You

paid for it?”

“Well, not me, the contract was arranged through
a shell company I named Magnificent Enterprises LLC. Sounds impressive, huh?
Don’t worry, no one will ever trace it back to me.”

“I’m not worried about the stupid TV show, where
the hell did you get the freakin’ money?”

“Oh, that. Joe, I can neither confirm nor deny
any scandalous accusations, but there might be a mob-controlled bank in Eastern
Europe that is missing some money. Or, it 
might

be missing a whole lot of money. Hee hee,” he giggled with glee, “when the
gangsters notice their money is gone, somebody has got some ’
splaaainin
 to do.”

“Oh, damn it. I am going to walk into a
shitstorm if we ever get home?”

“You? Why? 
You

didn’t do anything.”

“They’re not going to blame 
you
.”

“Good point, Joe. Well, nothing we can do about
it now. To take your mind off that subject, behold! One of the forgotten
classics of crappy 80s TV, ‘Casablanca’!”

Oh, man, it was freakin’ 
awful
. Basically, it was The Love Boat set in a North African bar
in 1941. People come into the bar, the lead character solves their problems,
then another person comes into the bar. Cancelling that steaming pile was a
mercy killing. Skippy made me suffer through all three episodes in less than
two hours, by speeding up the video. I wish he hadn’t, because watching one was
enough torture.

The only good thing about wasting two hours of
my life was I now had a piece of truly obscure 80s trivia I could inflict on
other people.

 

The retrieval teams got four dropships restarted
with only minor glitches, and no one else had to run their suit powercells
dangerously low like I did. Desai and I put our helmets back on and I opened
the big cargo bay doors at the rear of the dropship. With Desai flying on
thrusters alone, she guided the Condor to pick up the eighteen people remaining
from the two groups we had left floating in space. I stood in the open doorway
of the cargo bay, providing voice guidance to Desai, and tossed a line out to
the first group, who had tightened their tethers to pull themselves in a tight
formation so they could all fit through the doorway. The line was caught on the
first try, and I used a winch to slowly pull the ball of nine people into the
bay, then closed the door and repressurized the bay. Nine people were very
happy to get their helmets off. Like me, many people commented their arms and
hands were cramped from pumping the handle that provided survival power to
their suits. I got the first nine into the forward passenger compartment where
they could take turns washing up in the tiny bathroom, while I pumped air out
of the cargo bay so we could pick up the second group.

With twenty people squeezed into our Condor, it
felt like our uncomfortable flight down to Gingerbread. Fortunately, we
wouldn’t be stuck in the cramped confines of the dropship for nearly as long
this time. “Hey, Skippy,” I called him while I was still sealed up in my suit,
inspecting thrusters to make sure they would be ready for the all-important
flight back to the 
Dutchman
. “How you
doing over there? You have good news for us?”

“Hi, Joe. Good work getting people safely into
your ship, it looks like everyone is going to come through without any serious
health issues.”

“Yeah,” I had already used my command codes to
ping every suit for a status check. Some people were mildly dehydrated, and
extended time in suits had caused stiff muscles, but otherwise everyone was
going to be just fine. That assumed we could get back aboard a basically
functional starship, because our dropships could not get us to a habitable
planet from the middle of interstellar nowhere. “Don’t avoid the subject,
Skippy. Did your shortcut work?” I was very much hoping he could get the energy
virus purged quicker than expected, and not just so we could get the galley
back online and making cheeseburgers. Mostly, I was anxious to get moving to
help Colonel Perkins and her team, and the entire planet Paradise. The fear
that we might already be too late ate at me. If even one infected Keeper landed
on Paradise, the Ruhar might take drastic action to safeguard their population,
drastic action against all the humans on the planet. Yes, I was concerned for
the humans on Paradise, but I will admit part of my sick feeling was that we
had gone through enormous risk and effort to safeguard the future of humans
there, and now all our hard work might be undone by a small group of hateful lizards.

Ok, sure, a small group of humans on Kobamik had
sparked a civil war that was consuming Kristang society, but that was 
totally
 different. I am not a
philosopher, so don’t ask me how it’s different, it just is.

“Um, my shortcut has not worked as well as I had
hoped, Joe.”

“Damn. So, we can’t cut eleven hours off the
schedule?”

“Not quite. At first, the energy virus fell for
my trick, but then the stupid thing must be smarter than I thought, sorry about
that. The remaining virus scattered itself across several clusters of
powercells near the auxiliary reactor, and they are shielding themselves from
me so I can’t get at them without destroying the reactor.”

“Give me the bottom line, Skippy.”

“Bottom line,” he sighed, “is we can’t cut
eleven hours off the schedule. In fact, it now looks like I need to extend the
timeline by another forty, perhaps forty eight hours?”

“Forty hours? Skippy, we can’t wait that long.
That ship full of Keepers could be approaching Paradise now.”

“You’re right, Joe. Don’t forget, we need to
refuel the ship before we can go anywhere.”

“I know that, and we still don’t know where that
ship is. Every minute the
 Dutchman

sits dead in space, the danger to Paradise increases.”

“True. Also, the longer the ship goes without
power, the longer it will take me to bring critical systems up to operating
temperature. Joe, I am simply out of options. We have no choice but to wait for
those remaining powercells to drain completely. If you come back aboard or even
close to the ship, the energy virus can infect the dropships, or you monkeys,
and we will be in even bigger trouble than we are now.”

Skippy was out of options, that meant we were
out of options. Or, wait, was that true? Maybe our beer can was just out of 
ideas
, not options. And, right then, I had
an idea.

A commander should know every bolt, every weld
of his ship. I should know what makes every system aboard the ship work.
Because not even our science team understood most of the Thuranin technology
that made the 
Dutchman
 function, I
had no chance to grasp even basic concepts behind the functioning of things
like our jump drive coils. But one thing I did know was the physical layout of
components making up our rebuilt Frankenship. “Skippy, the only place that
energy virus still exists is that one bank of powercells near the backup
reactor?”

“Yes, why? Uh!” He shushed me. “Before you tell
me your latest brilliant idea, the answer no, we can’t sacrifice that reactor
so I can burn out the virus. I need to get the backup reactor restarted, so it
can energize the containment system of the main reactor. So, put that thought
right out of your tiny little brain.”

I was tired and I smelled terrible even to
myself, and I desperately wanted to get into a hot shower with a wire brush to
scrape the accumulated layers of funkiness off my skin. Also, I had a sick
feeling in the pit of my stomach that the entire human population of Paradise
could be counting down to a death sentence. So, I didn’t take time to savor the
joy of out-thinking His Awesomeness. “Skippy,” I said with a combination of
weariness, fear and pain from a stiff neck. “All those powercells are attached
to a sort of scaffolding, right? I remember when you assembled that section of
the ship in the junkyard.”

“Correct, it was more convenient for maintenance
to cluster those powercells together, though that makes the assembly more
vulnerable to a single hit in battle.”

“Yeah, we had to make a lot of compromises. That
scaffolding is attached to the hull with explosive bolts?”

“Yes, that is a safety feature, so we can eject
the powercells without damaging the reactor and, and-Damn it! And once again I
truly, truly hate you, Joe. You’re telling me to blow those bolts and send
those powercells spinning off into space?”

“You got it,” despite how tired I felt, I
grinned. “Can the ship function without those powercells?”

“It can for now. I will need to pull powercells
from other parts of the ship eventually, but, yes, we do not absolutely need
those powercells. Joe, I should be insulted that I did not think of such a
simple and obvious solution. Maybe I am so emotionally invested in this ship
I’ve rebuilt several times, that I failed to consider sacrificing part of the
ship.”

“Skippy, at this point, there aren’t many parts
of the ship we 
can
 sacrifice, without
the whole damned thing falling apart. Will this work?”

“Yes, it will. Give me three hours to make
absolutely certain the energy virus is weakened enough so it can’t try to
migrate to another system, and then I’ll blow the bolts. Crap! You’re going to
humiliate me about this, aren’t you?”

“No, Skippy, I won’t tell anyone. You should
tell the crew it was your idea.”

“Uh, 
what
?”

“The crew have lost a lot of confidence in you,
Skippy. You got suckered by that computer worm, your plan to jump into the
Roach Motel got the ship torn apart, and we barely escaped from there. Now we
took aboard an energy virus you didn’t know anything about. The crew, and
Chotek in particular, need to regain their trust in you. I figure that you
happily announcing the virus is dead way ahead of schedule will be a big
confidence booster.”

“Oh.”

“Because otherwise, I would totally bust your
balls about it until the end of time.”

“I would expect no less. Hmm. Joe, I feel like
I’m cashing in a Get-Out-Of-Jail-Free card. Karma is going to come back and
bite me in the ass about this someday.”

“How about you stop educating me about crappy
80s TV shows, and we call it even?”

“Um, can we compromise, and I’ll take The Love
Boat off the schedule?”

Why was I attempting to negotiate with a being
who had fusion-powered stubbornness? “Take Love Boat 
and
 Knight Rider off the schedule, and you’ve got a deal.”

“Deal. Oh, Joe, I can’t wait to show you my
surprise; two lost episodes of ‘Casablanca’.”

“Oh, man,” I groaned. “Can’t they stay lost?”

 

Three hours later, Skippy blew the explosive
bolts and ejected the contaminated powercells away from our starship, prompting
cheers aboard all four dropships. We still could not go back to the ship,
because there was no point going aboard until Skippy had power restored. That
took a bit longer than the beer can estimated, still we were able to cut more
than a full day off Skippy’s original schedule of eighty six hours. There were
smiles all around when we detected heat from the backup reactor, and Skippy
announced that ‘Spacebnb’ was now accepting reservations for cabins aboard the
ship. “It will take another hour before hot water is available for showers,” he
warned. “I had to drain all the pipes before the water in them froze while the
ship was shut down, and I’m having to let water trickle back in slowly.”

“No problem, Skippy, it will take us more than an
hour to get back and secure the dropships anyway. What about gravity?”

“The main reactor is just coming back online at
minimum power. It should be stable in about twenty minutes, then I can resume
feeding power to the artificial gravity plating.”

“Uh, to do that, you need to divert power from
recharging the jump drive capacitors?”

“I know you are worried that the ship is
vulnerable until the capacitors reach a minimum charge for a jump, but don’t
worry about artificial gravity. If I keep gravity at one third Gee, that will
delay achieving a jump by only thirteen minutes.”

“All right,” I considered thirteen minutes to be
an acceptable risk, and the crew deserved an opportunity to get out of their
suits to enjoy a luxurious shower.

“Please warn the crew the ship will be a bit on
the chilly side for a few hours.”

“We will wear sweaters, Skippy. You are
absolutely certain it is safe for us to come back to the ship?”

“No. I am as certain as I 
can
 be. Rebooting the ship gave me an opportunity to conduct a deep
scan, and I am confident those nasty Guardians didn’t sneak aboard any more
surprises for us. Sorry, but that’s the truth.”

“Good enough, I guess.” The sad truth was, we
didn’t have a choice, the 
Dutchman

was our only option. We flew a careful course back to the 
Flying Dutchman
, keeping the bulk of the forward hull between our
dropships and the discarded powercells that were slowly drifting farther from
the ship. I waited for the last of the four crewed dropships to be brought back
aboard, then ordered the crew to get cleaned up, with pilots reporting back to
the docking bays in one hour. We sent teams out to recover the other dropships,
an operation that took another six hours. After that, Desai gently goosed the
ship forward away from the contaminated powercells to test the normal-space engines.
We kept the jump drive on a hair-trigger for an emergency escape, but no danger
emerged, so we didn’t jump until we had enough charge to take us a useful
distance toward a star system where we could find a gas giant planet to refill
the 
Dutchman
’s depleted fuel tanks.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY FIVE
I was in my cabin after the successful jump,
washing up before going to the galley for a simple dinner. The crew would be
without fresh food for a while, Major Simms warned the extended shutdown had as
expected, killed all the plants in the hydroponics bays, so she would need to
start all over growing crops from seeds. Chotek was still pissed at and
skeptical of Skippy, but I think Simms was most upset with the beer can. Three
times now, his actions or inactions had disrupted her carefully-managed garden.
She was rightfully proud of providing a substantial quantity of fresh food, and
I think too often she felt taken for granted. Although as a major, Simms took
shifts as duty officer in the command chair or CIC, she was not an elite
special operations soldier, nor a pilot, nor part of the science team. I
regularly volunteered to work in the hydroponics bays to show my appreciation,
and because seeing green things growing made me a tiny bit less homesick. For
the next week, I needed to make a special effort to work closely with Major
Jennifer Simms.

“Whew,” Skippy’s avatar appeared over my bunk, took
off his enormous hat and wiped his brow in an exaggerated gesture. “
That
 is a relief. Man, I was quaking in
my boots for a minute there.”

“You mean the jump?” I paused from splashing
water on my face. “You told us the jump drive was in perfect condition!”

“It was, Joe, and it is. Well, as perfect as a
secondhand hunk of ancient junk can be.”

“I understand that. So why were you so worried?”

“Uh, there was another danger that I didn’t
mention, because we could not do anything about, so there was no reason for you
to worry.”

“Crap. What did you not tell me about 
this
 time?”

“The energy virus. There was a possibility that
the virus could have uploaded itself into a higher dimension, to reside in the
energy pattern still reverberating from our previous jump.”

“
What
?”

“Every jump, especially at the inbound end,
causes a resonance in the quantum grid that underlies local spacetime. I told
you that before,” he admonished in a peevish tone. “That resonance is how ships
can be tracked through a jump.”

“Yes, but you also told me that resonance
dissipates at a known rate, and is too faint to be useful within hours.”

“In 
local
spacetime
 the effect dissipates quickly. At the quantum grid level above
local spacetime, the jump energy can be retained for a substantial and
unpredictable length of time. That is why ships avoid repeatedly jumping from
the same position; the resonance of their own jump field can interact with
resonance patterns leftover from previous jumps, and cause a jump field to
collapse. It’s like a damping field, but the effect can’t be detected from
local spacetime.”

“Shiiiiiiit,” I exhaled slowly to retain what
little patience I had. “And you didn’t tell us this because??”

“Well, Joe, because
when I program jumps, I always avoid jumping from the position of a previous-”

“I didn’t mean why you didn’t tell us about this
quantum grid thingy or whatever. I meant, why didn’t you tell us about the risk
of the energy virus lurking in, jump space or whatever you call it?”

“Because there was no point telling you. We had
to jump, and even I could not detect whether the residual energy pattern was
infected by the virus.”

“It wasn’t?”

“Nope, we’re good.”

“How do you know that or sure, Oh Great One?”

“Because for the energy virus to reinfect the
ship, it would have had to rearrange the quantum pattern as we jumped. 
That
 is something I would easily have
detected, and it didn’t happen. Joe, to upload into the quantum grid, the
energy virus could only do that as we jumped, although that would have been
more difficult for me to detect. I was fairly confident the virus didn’t bother
uploading part of itself, but I was not 
absolutely

certain, because I wasn’t looking for it at the time, and our wonky jump drive
still created a lot of random noise during a jump. Either the virus lacks the
ability to upload, or assumed it could destroy the ship in this spacetime so it
didn’t bother to upload into the quantum grid. There is a silver lining to this
whole mess; taking the ship completely offline allowed me to retune the jump
drive so it is much less noisy. In fact, it is in better condition than before
we jumped into the Roach Motel,” he added proudly.

I burst his arrogant bubble. “The jump drive was
in 
terrible
 condition before you
jumped us into the Roach Motel.”

“I said 
better

condition, Joe,” he sniffed. “I didn’t say it was in 
good
 condition. I told you we should have bought the extended
warranty, but you had to blow the money on new floor mats instead.”

I recognized his attempt at humor as a defensive
reaction. “All right, I guess the important thing is the energy virus is no
longer a problem. So, we can move onto worrying about the 
next
 freakin’ problem! Damn it! Skippy,” I clenched my fists and
shook them in front of me to release some of my frustration. “The lizards are
in a damn civil war! How the hell do they have time for side jobs like forcing
the hamsters off Paradise?”

“Because it 
is

a side job, Joe. It’s ironic when you think about it.”

“Ironic?” Sometimes Skippy pissed me off when he
treated deadly serious situations way too casually. “How the hell do you
figure-”

“Jeez Louise, Joe, don’t get mad at me, it
wasn’t 
my
 idea to create a supervirus.
If you’ll close your mouth and open your ears, you might understand why I said
it is ‘ironic’.”

From the tone of his voice, I could tell he was
hurt by my reaction. Our super-intelligent alien AI was sensitive about how we
treated him, especially how I treated him. He had little experience with
emotions, and I shouldn’t expect him to understand how we might feel about
something he said. If he thought something was ironic, then he genuinely
thought that was true. “Skippy, I am sorry, I really am. I know this is not
your fault. Please explain.”

Ok,” the tone of his voice perked right up
again. “Here’s the story. You know that Paradise was originally colonized by
the Kristang, by the Black Trees clan, right?” He didn’t wait for me to answer.
“That planet was left alone for a very long time, probably for millions of
years, because there were not any active wormholes close enough to provide
useful access. Actually, that isn’t completely true, the wormhole closest to
Paradise was active for many years, but that wormhole connected to another
wormhole at the edge of the galaxy, so no one ever used it. Anyway, a later
wormhole shift changed the connection, and the Black Trees seized the
opportunity to explore Paradise. That is when they found the remains of a crashed
Elder starship, and me. And that is when they installed maser projectors under
the surface.”

“Yup, I remember that,” I replied with what I
hoped was a blank look on my face, while I dug a thumbnail into my palm
painfully to keep me from shouting for him to hurry up and get to the freakin’
point.

“Good, good. So, the Black Trees surrendered the
planet without a shot when the Ruhar arrived, because the Black Trees thought
they had stripped all the Elder goodies from the place and they didn’t care
about farmland. And, well, heh, heh, now we get to the ironic part.”

My Spidey sense tingled as it always does when
he says ‘well heh heh’. “Oh, shit.”

“Yeah. The Law of Unintended Consequences is
coming back to bite us in the ass again, Joe. We got the Ruhar to hold onto
Paradise by planting fake Elder artifacts there. Unfortunately, our actions
also got the leadership of the Black Trees clan arguing about who decided to
give the planet to the Ruhar. Many subclans under the Black Trees coalition are
angry they missed out on scooping up valuable Elder artifacts, and the incident
made the subclans question the leadership of the Black Trees. Obviously, with a
civil war raging, this is not a good time for the Black Trees leadership to
appear weak and foolish.”

“Crap. So the Black Trees want to take Paradise
back?”

“Yes and no, Joe. Yes, they would like to take
the planet back. No, during a civil war they are not willing to commit scarce
resources, to reclaim a planet where the Ruhar now have substantial defenses.”

“If they aren’t
willing to fight for Paradise, then why would they-”

“It’s complicated. The Sharp Stone clan is
currently allied with the Black Trees, and the Silver Blades owe a debt to the
Black Trees. The Silver Blades wanted to cancel that debt, in part because they
were reconsidering their alliance with the Black Trees. So, they proposed to
create the pathogen, to weaken the Ruhar’s hold on Paradise.”

“Ok, fine, I can see all that happening 
before
 the civil war, but why didn’t
they drop the operation once the fighting started? The Black Trees can’t
possibly care about Paradise right now! Even if the civil war ended today, the
Black Trees couldn’t scrape together enough ships to recapture Paradise for,
what, another five years?”

“More like ten years, Joe, that would be my
guess. Assuming the Black Trees clan still exists after the war, they would be
far too busy consolidating any territory they gained, to bother with a military
operation to take Paradise.”

“Why, then? Why didn’t the team on Camp Alpha
get shut down, once we got the civil war started?”

“Politics, is the simple answer. The Black Trees
are holding the Silver Blades to their commitment, as a way of testing the Silver
Blades’ loyalty to their coalition. Resources devoted to the effort on Camp
Alpha make the Silver Blades weaker and more dependent on the Black Trees for
protection. The Black Trees also know that while the Silver Blades are busy
trying to wipe out the hamster population on Paradise, they are not able to
double-cross the Black Trees and switch sides in the civil war.”

“Oh, for Christ’s sake! How the hell do the
lizards keep track of which clan is trying to screw which other clan?”

“That’s easy, Joe. Every clan is pretty much 
constantly
 trying to screw over any
other clan that is in their way of gaining more power and influence. Alliances
are only as good as the power to enforce agreements, and to offer a clan more
protection and advantages than some other clan could. The Kristang warrior
caste officially considers honor to be of utmost importance, but every clan
will break an agreement if they think it will benefit them. Their attitude is
that inter-clan agreements are just business, so honor is not truly at stake.”

“Crap. This is the sort of thing Chotek handles
for a living, it makes my head hurt. Ok, so, do I understand this correctly?
Before the civil war, the Silver Blades got the bright idea for a bioweapon
scheme to wipe humans and hamsters off Paradise, as a way to gain favor with
the Black Trees. Now that the war is on, the Black Trees are demanding the
Silver Blades complete the operation, as a test of loyalty?”

“Oh, no, Joe. Not as a test of loyalty, because
the Black Trees have no illusions about expecting loyalty from the Silver
Blades.”

“Sure, I understand that, but close enough,
right?”

“Close enough,” the beer can agreed. “You get
why I said this is ironic? If we hadn’t made Paradise seem like a shopping mall
full of Elder goodies, the Black Trees wouldn’t have any interest in taking the
place back.”

“Ironic, yeah. Skippy, I am beginning to really
hate that Law of Unintended Consequences.”

“You and me both, brother,” he grumbled.

“All right, all right, let me think. The upside
is, if we stop this ship full of infected Keepers from reaching Paradise, the
Silver Blades are unlikely to continue trying to conduct the op? The Black
Trees won’t make the Silver Blades start all over again?”

“Correct. If we can stop that ship before it
reaches Paradise, I strongly suspect the Black Trees will consider the Silver
Blades have made a good-faith effort, and consider the agreement fulfilled.
With the Black Trees fighting for their lives against the Fire Dragons and half
the other clans in Kristang society, they need all the ships and warriors they
can get, without wasting resources on distractions.”

“Thank God for small favors. Dammit! We took a
huge risk starting a civil war, and my hope was we wouldn’t have to worry about
the lizards causing any trouble for, like, a decade.”

“They might not cause any 
new
 trouble, Joe. The Camp Alpha op was in progress before the
fighting started. Also, that op is an anomaly. Many other planned strikes
against the Ruhar were cancelled.”

“Great! Fantastic! Another example of my rotten
luck.”

“The universe hates you, Joe.”

“Hey, that punk-ass universe can deal with me
directly, my crew and the rest of humanity don’t need to get caught in the
crossfire.”

“Unfortunately, it doesn’t work that way, Joe.”

 

We had one more jump before we arrived at the
star system where we needed to refuel the ship from a gas giant planet.
Stopping to take on fuel would delay our arrival at the Paradise system, and it
involved risk because the ship would be vulnerable while our dropships were
dipping into the atmosphere to siphon off vital elements, but we had no choice.
The 
Flying
 
Dutchman
’s tanks were running dry, and we had been in such a rush
to escape from the Roach Motel that we didn’t take on fuel there.

So, while the jump drive capacitors recharged, I
was in the shower early one morning, getting ready for a duty shift.

Naturally, Skippy
wanted to talk with me. “Hey, Joe, did you ever wonder-”

“Yeah, I wonder why you always talk to me while
my freakin’ head is under the shower.”

“No, that’s 
not

what I was wondering, dumdum. Have you ever thought about combining the songs
‘Muskrat love’ and ‘Sound of Music’?” He launched into a horribly off-key
abomination of a song. “
The hills are
aliiiive, with the love of muuuuuuskrats
.”

“Wh, wh-wha-” I couldn’t talk, so shocked I
stood there under the shower with my mouth open and almost choked on the water.
“Wh-what? 
WHAT
? 
Muskrats
?”

“What?” He asked innocently.

“Oh my 
GOD
!
Crap, have you gone loony-tunes on us again? Damn, did that energy virus infect
you and scramble your brain?” I slapped the shower off button though I still
had shampoo running down my scalp. If Skippy was going on vacation again or
even temporarily lost processing capacity, I needed to warn the crew so we
could-

“No, dumdum, I’m fine, never better. Everything
is hunky-dory with me, Joe. Although that expression does make me wonder why a
dory would be considered ‘hunky’. A dory is just a stupid boat. Hmm, maybe the
guy rowing the dory is hunky. I’ll ask Major Simms, she is a woman so she’ll
know what type of guy is hunky and-”

“You’re fine?” I did not want him going off on
another tangent. “Seriously? Then why the hell are you singing about muskrats?”

“Because you are grumpy in the morning, Joe, I
was trying to cheer you up.”

“I’m not grumpy, the problem is people want to
talk to me about too many things first thing in the morning. There are only two
discussion topics that are acceptable right after I wake up. The first is
coffee.”

“Ok, I can see that. What’s the other one?”

“Nothing. Absolutely nothing.”

“Nothing is not an actual discussion topic, you
have to-Oh, I get it.”

“Yeah. Are you done now? I’ve got shampoo in my
eyes.”

“Sure, Joe.” He turned the water back on for me.
Even Skippy knew not to screw with me before my first cup of coffee. “Rinse off
quick and drink a cup of coffee, because we have work to do. We need a plan for
how to help Colonel Perkins.”

 

“Skippy, I have a question for you.”

“Is this about girls? Because I’m not the best
person to ask.”

“No, it’s not about girls,” I could feel my face
growing red.

“Although, I have gotten laid just as much as
you have recently.”

“Thank you 
so

much for reminding me. There is more to life than getting laid, Skippy.”

“Says the guy who doesn’t get any action,” he
chuckled.

“Can we drop the subject?”

“Okey-dokey with me. What did you want to talk
about?”

“The Roach Motel. We used a wormhole to destroy
that Maxolhx ship.”

“Uh huh, yeah, that sounds vaguely familiar. Of
course I remember it, Joe, I 
did
 it. 
Duh
.”

“I wasn’t asking-” But he was off on a tangent
already.

“I am quite proud of that, Joe. If there is ever
a compilation of Skippy’s Greatest Hits, that needs to go near the top.
Although, hee, hee,” he giggled, “how could anyone decide which of my actions
are in the Top Ten? Selecting a Top Hundred would be difficult, impossible!”

“Oh, truly it would be impossible for us
monkeys, Oh Magnificent One,” I rolled my eyes inwardly, which was not easy to
do. When Skippy got on a roll like that, I had to play along with him or he
would get hurt. “But you make the impossible look easy. Why don’t 
you
 create a list of your greatest
accomplishments?” I figured doing that would keep him busy and prevent him from
causing trouble for a while.

He sucked in a sharp breath. “Joe, that is a 
great
 idea. I do owe it to the universe
to-”

“Uh huh,” I interrupted before he could spiral
into an endless loop of praising himself. “Since we monkeys can’t truly
appreciate your awesomeness, we are not worthy of ranking your accomplishments.”

“Joe, that is the nicest thing you’ve ever said
to me. It is true that asking monkeys for input on ranking my awesomeness would
be a waste of time,” he said slowly, pondering the issue. “Still, I suppose it
would be-Hey, you big jerk! You’re smirking at me!”

“That wasn’t a smirk, it was, uh, a smile.”

“Ooooooooh, I hate you 
so
 much.”

“Yup, great. So, getting back to my question,
you plopped the far end of a wormhole on top of a ship and ripped it apart. We
used a wormhole as a weapon. I didn’t think of it at the time, but doesn’t that
violate some Elder rule or something? Why didn’t the Guardians protest about us
doing it?”

“Those pain-in-the-ass Guardians 
did
 protest, Joe, they threw a
full-blown diva-queen hissy fit. Later, I mean. Right after it happened, the
Guardians were sort of paralyzed with shock and amazement. Hee hee, that was
freakin’ hilarious! Their first reaction was ‘WTF was 
that
’? They couldn’t believe it. See, even devices created by the
Elders think my awesomeness is beyond comprehension. They were all like ‘How
did you do that’ and I was like ‘easy’ and they were all like ‘
Duuuuuude
 that has never been done
before’ and I was like ‘I make the impossible seem ordinary’ and they were
like-”

“Skippy!” I had to interrupt him or he would
have gone on forever. Hearing the arrogant beer can sounding like an airhead
teenage girl was going to make me burst out laughing if he continued. “You
answered my question, thank you. I’m going on duty, I’ll talk with you in about
five hours in my office, Ok? We can think up ideas to rescue Paradise, 
again
.”

 

“Oh, this is going to 
suuuuck
,” Skippy the drama queen dragged out the last word as he
popped to life above my office desk.

“Why’s that?” I asked, knowing I would regret
asking. With Skippy, you had to play along, or he would pester you until you
did. For a human, I considered myself pretty stubborn, even for a guy, but I
knew not to try outlasting a being whose stubbornness was powered by metallic
helium-3.

“Why?” he sputtered. “Joe, we have to find a
single, tiny ship in the vastness of space!”

“Yeah, I was thinking about that while I was on
duty.” Thinking about how to rescue Paradise from a horrible bioweapon was more
pleasant than worrying about the perilous mission our dropships would be flying
to pick up fuel. “Since you’re a beer can, I assume you never played Marco Polo
when you were a kid?”

“Marco P-What? Do you mean some sort of lame
role-playing game like that Warhammer thing you used to play? Or, hey, are you
talking about an alt-rock band?”

“Uh, neither. And Warhammer isn’t lame,” I added
in defense of my younger self.

“The way 
you

played was lame,” Skippy chuckled. “Remember the time you tried to impress a
girl by dressing up as-”

“Let’s not talk about that now,” I said
hurriedly while sipping coffee. “No, I mean Marco Polo as in the game you play
in a swimming pool.”

“Oh. Yes, I know about that game, but I
considered it the most lame of all possibilities involving the phrase ‘Marco
Polo’. How does a silly children’s game relate to our current problem?”

“It’s going to solve our problem, at least I
hope so.”

“Ok, you’ve lost me again. Please, I am begging
the village idiot to enlighten me.”

“In the game, one person finds other people not
by looking for them, but by calling out ‘Marco’.”

“Technically, one person shouting ‘Marco’ is 
not
 how that person finds the others.
The other people give away their positions by stupidly calling out ‘Polo’. If
those people just kept quiet, they could hide forever and-Oooh. Now I get it.
Uh, nope. No, I don’t. Joe, ‘Polo’ does sound like a word in the Kristang
common language, but that word is a technical term about electrical energy. I
don’t see how that helps us.”

“Skippy, come on. Seriously, you don’t know
where I’m going with this? It is totally obvious.”

“Obvious to an idiot meatsack, maybe,” he
sniffed.

“Ok, listen, somehow, you send out a message from
the Black Trees, or from Silver Blade clan leadership, requesting that ship to
signal its position. Get it? You will sort of yell ‘Marco’ and they will reply
‘Polo’. We locate that ship, and 
BAM
,”
I smacked a fist into a palm. “We pound it to dust.”

He sighed. “Joe, of all the dumb ideas you ever
had, and there are an impressive stack of them, 
this
 has to be the-”

“I know, greatest, right? Ooh ooh!” I shouted
excitedly and bounced in my chair because right then I got another idea that
was EVEN BETTER. “Wait! If you can signal that ship, don’t just tell it to
report its position, you somehow give it a recall order. Yeah! Send it home,
tell it the clan leadership changed its mind, or, I don’t know, decided to save
those infected Keepers for a rainy day or something.”

“Joe.”

“Yeah?”

“Are you done smacking me with your brilliant
ideas?”

“I have a full mug of coffee here, Skippy, so my
brain is awake. I am firing on all cylinders today, more brilliant ideas may be
coming.”

“Ok. First, 
somehow

I send a retrieval code, or a request for that ship to report its position?
Somehow? Like, how?”

“I don’t know,” I waved a hand vaguely. “However
you do magical shit like that.”

“Joe, how I do magical shit like that is getting
the codes from somewhere first. I have no idea what private authentication
codes were provided to that ship. There are two places I could get such codes.
First, we could go poking around in databases of the Silver Blade clan leaders,
I would have to do a lot of poking around to find the one specific code we
need.”

The coffee in my mouth suddenly tasted sour.
“That is not an option, what else you got?”

“The matching set of codes would, of course, be
aboard the ship we’re searching for. All we need to do is find that ship, 
which is the problem we’re trying to solve
you DUMDUM
!”

 

As Skippy would say, 
UGH
, in that thoroughly disgusted sigh he does. I won’t bore you
with details of every stupid idea I dreamed up and discarded on my own. Or the
plans I thought were good enough to review with Skippy, before he shot them
down like easy targets in a video game. Seriously, we monkeys trying to think
up ways to find a single ship in the vastness of space around the Paradise
system accomplished nothing of use, but man, I sure kept Skippy tickled pink.
He came up with fresh new insults, and I had him chuckling and feeling good,
which I suppose was good, considering how glum he had been after we almost got
killed by an Elder energy virus he hadn’t known about.

Since we weren’t getting anything useful done, I
decided to take a two hour break for lunch and a quick workout in the gym. It
was late, because we had worked through the standard lunch time, so the duty
crew in the galley was tidying up and our options were limited to soup or
sandwiches. That was Ok with me, I hadn’t eaten a good deli sandwich in a while
and this was an opportunity to make one just the way I like it.

“Oh, man,” I groaned with my mouth watering, “that
is almost too many choices.” Adams and I were standing back, letting other
people go through the line first. The crew on duty in the galley that day was
from the American SpecOps team, and they had laid out a great selection of
meats and cheeses. They even had cappicola, although I didn’t see any
mortadella, but being so far from Earth I was amazed we had anything other than
bologna for sandwiches. “It’s impossible to decide what to put on a sandwich.
Mmm, they made fresh sub rolls!”

“Sir,” Adams gave me that look sergeants use on
dumbass new recruits who don’t know one end of a rifle from the other. “First,
imagine what kind of sandwich you want, 
then

you see what ingredients you have to work with.”

“Holy shit, Gunny,” I stared at her, my mouth
open in stunned amazement. “I need to work the problem 
backwards
.”

“It’s not that
complicated, Sir. Wait, where are you going?” She asked, but I was already on
the way out the door.

Plopping down in my office chair, I tried to
erase tantalizing visions of a piled-high deli sandwich from my mind. “Hey,
Skippy, what if we’ve been going about this all wrong?”

“Ooooh, well, it’s about freakin’ time,” his
avatar popped to life on my desk. “I’ve been waiting for you monkeys to realize
that 
I
 should be captain of this ship,
not you. Although, really, it would best if you were to worship my awesomeness,
maybe build a shrine-”

“After you got us stuck in the Roach Motel, the
only shrine we would build is to your most idiotic moments. No, I meant, what
if we’ve have been thinking about how to find this ship backwards?”

“Backwards?” He sighed. “Again, Joe, you’ve lost
me with your monkey-brained thinking. Do you propose we first assume we have a
way to find that ship, and work backwards from-”

“No, because 
that

truly would be stupid. I mean backwards, like, how do the 
Kristang
 plan to infect humans on Paradise? They must have a plan
better than landing a dropship full of infected Keepers outside a human town in
southern Lemuria, and the Keepers walk out and say ‘take us to your leader’. We
should start by trying to figure out the Kristang plan, then work backwards to
determine how the Kristang would implement that plan.”

His avatar placed a hand on its chin pensively.
“Hmmm, that idea actually does have merit.”

“Ok,” I gave him a thumbs up sign as my stomach
growled from hunger. “A large group of Keepers suddenly popping up in a
thinly-populated area would stick out like a sore thumb,” I waggled a thumb at
the avatar. “So the Kristang would likely be flying a stealthed dropship around
the bush at night, dropping off Keepers in ones and twos,” I was thinking aloud
to myself. “In a small village even one new person would be noticed, so they
would target towns with significant populations. Skippy, can you calculate a
flight pattern-”

“Joe! How about we 
assume
 you invited me here because you want my advice?”

“Uh, Ok?”

“Great. So, instead of you wasting time
ignorantly speculating how the Kristang might infiltrate Keepers, you ask 
me
 how they would do it?”

“Um, sure, let’s do that.”

“Now we’re getting somewhere. By what must be a
true miracle, you stumbled onto a minor fact that must be accurate; the
Kristang would target larger towns in southern Lemuria so the infected Keepers
can better blend in and encounter a large number of humans to infect. They
would target human towns with regular trade with Ruhar, to better transfer the
pathogen to the Ruhar population. That allows us to identify the most likely
target areas are large towns with air fields or seaports. All of that is
fantastic information, and pretty much useless to us. The Ruhar authorities on
Paradise, who are not numbskulls like you, would have used the same logic I
just did. By now, they have surely locked down all travel between the human
settlements in southern Lemuria and the rest of the planet. Your UNEF HQ would
be smart to also impose a travel ban between settlements, to lessen the danger
of infection spreading.”

“Yeah, that’s all great, but once the first
human or Ruhar shows signs of infection, the Ruhar military will step in and
take matters into their own hands. We have to kill that ship 
before
 a bunch of infected Keepers can
land.”

“I know that, Joe. What I am trying to tell you
is, the Kristang would not simply fly around in a stealthed dropship to insert
the Keepers. The strategic defense and sensor network around Paradise is
incomplete, shamefully inadequate, because the Ruhar federal government has put
far too much effort into developing real estate rather than building defenses.
However, I would expect the Ruhar fleet to reinforce the network above southern
Lemuria. A stealthed dropship could insert over an area with poor sensor
coverage and then fly to the target area, but that is risky and inefficient. I
expect the Kristang would have to use two or more unmanned stealth dropships as
decoys, but not for infiltration. Using dropships at all is too risky. Based on
data recovered by the Mavericks, I believe the Kristang plan to get Keepers to
the surface by dropping them inside stealthed aeroshells.”

“Crap. Like how we got down to Jumbo?” Our
spacedive and descent to the surface of that heavy-gravity world is not one of
my fondest memories.

“Exactly, Joe. The Kristang Special Forces have
excellent equipment for dropping small teams of soldiers to the surface of
worlds with adequately thick atmospheres. Their aeroshells use a combination of
stealth and suspensor fields, plus nanofabric balloons and paragliders.
Considering the overall crappy state of Kristang technology, their capability
for infiltration of ground troops is impressive. They utilize that capability
often for raids and assassinations against other clans.”

“That sucks. Wait,” I snapped my fingers. “At
Jumbo, we dropped in the middle of a meteor shower, to confuse the Thuranin
sensors.”

“Correct, and the Kristang are no doubt planning
to do something similar, to conceal the Keepers’ descent. The Paradise system
has a large asteroid belt and a particularly dense Oort cloud, so the planet is
regularly bombarded by meteor showers.”

“At Jumbo, we dropped meteors on purpose, we
diverted space rocks to fall ahead and behind us. But around Paradise, the
Ruhar must have a pretty good map of all the space junk in that system, right?
If the Kristang nudged some rocks off course, the Ruhar would notice?”

“The Ruhar did make an extensive effort to map
the system out to five percent of a lightyear, and the fleet now maintains that
sensor network, yes. Why does that matter?”

“Because, Skippy,” I explained hopefully, “the
Kristang will know that. They must be planning to infiltrate those Keepers
during a regular, natural meteor shower.”

“Hmm, Joe, that 
is
 good thinking. I am sufficiently impressed that I am suppressing
my urge to mock your intelligence.”

“Great!” That didn’t make up for me missing a
delicious sandwich, but I counted it as a win anyway. “Tell me, Oh Great and
Wise One, have there been any meteor showers over southern Lemuria recently?
And when will there be meteors hitting there in, like, the next couple months?”
Under the desk, I crossed my fingers, praying there had not recently been a
meteor shower there, so the Keepers hadn’t landed yet.

“Hmmm,” he took off his ridiculously oversized
admiral’s hat and scratched his head. “Accessing the data now. Oops, looks like
there were meteor showers over the target area six days ago, and twenty seven
days ago.”

“Ahhhhhh, shit,” I slumped in my chair. The
damned Keepers might already be on the surface! “Damn it!” Raising a fist, I
intended to slam it on the desk in frustration, but Skippy’s avatar held up a
hand to stop me.

“Hold your horses, Joe. Don’t be so hasty, you
haven’t heard all the facts. That meteor fall twenty seven days ago is too
early, the Kristang could not have arrived here from Camp Alpha so quickly.
Unless their Bosphuraq star carrier flew a very quick route and took
substantial risks by using shortcuts through enemy territory.”

“Paradise

is
 enemy territory for the Bosphuraq, Skippy,” I noted in a grump mood.

“Yes, dumdum, but what I meant is, for a star
carrier to arrive at the Paradise system before the meteor shower twenty seven
days ago, that ship would need to use Elder wormholes in heavily-trafficked
areas of Jeraptha space. I do not think an operation to kill humans on Paradise
is important enough for the Bosphuraq to risk one of their star carriers.”

“Ok,” I breathed a quick sigh of relief. Quick,
because I was waiting for Skippy to deliver the bad news. “There was another
meteor shower six days ago.”

“Correct. However, that particular meteor shower
is very old, it is composed of dust from a comet that broke apart seventy
thousand years ago. The remnants of that comet are tiny particles of dust, Joe.
The biggest space rock from that comet would only create a micrometeorite,
nothing large enough to provide concealment for a team of Keepers dropping to the
surface in stealthed aeroshells.”

“Oh,” I sat back in my chair again, but this
time I wasn’t slumped in defeat, I was staring at the ceiling, trying to
understand what Skippy’s revelation meant. “Ok, then. So, if the Kristang do
plan on using aeroshells to land the Keepers-”

“You can count on it, Joe. Data collected from
Camp Alpha by Colonel Perkins contains records of Keepers being trained to
perform drops from orbit, using aeroshells. This training included seven drops,
so it was an extensive project to which the Kristang devoted considerable
resources.”

“All right. So, you know my next question,
right?”

“When is the next meteor shower over southern
Lemuria? That will be eight days from now. After that, there will not be
another significant shower for sixty seven days. Joe, if I were a betting man,
or a betting 
can
,” he chuckled, “I
would put my money on the Keepers dropping in eight days. After another two
months, the Ruhar will surely have increased their defenses and sensor coverage
over southern Lemuria. And no way would the Bosphuraq want one of their star
carriers to hang around Paradise for two freakin’ months.”

“Eight days? We can get there in four days, you
said?”

“Yes. Joe, that leaves only four days for us to
locate and kill that ship. We still have the problem of finding a single
stealthed ship in the Paradise system. Having a good guess 
when
 they plan to drop the Keepers still doesn’t help us much.”

“Yes it does, Skippy. You need to think like a
meatsack. Remember when we were spacediving toward Jumbo, and you read that
stupid freakin’ book to me?”

“The book was a true masterpiece, Joe. If you
like, I can start again at Chapter One ‘Why I Hate Your Stupid Ugly Face’.”

“Please don’t! My point, Oh Incomprehensibly
Awesome One,” I rolled my eyes as I said that, “is because the Keepers are
meatsacks, the Kristang will have to limit the time they are stuck inside aeroshells.
Believe me, even the most disciplined fanatics will become mission ineffective
after two days cooped up in one of those shells.”

“Hmmm, you may be right about that, Joe.
Kristang aeroshells are not known for being the luxury accommodations I
provided for you for landing on Jumbo.”

“That was luxury? Damn, Skippy, it felt like you
slapped those things together out of duct tape. If our aeroshells were a hotel,
they wouldn’t even be a Motel Six, they’d be, like, a Motel 
Two
. Maybe less.”

“Yes, it was 
soooo

terrible for you biological trashbags to be stuck in there.” That was his turn
to roll his eyes. “My point, dumdum, is you are right, the Kristang would not
want the Keepers inside those aeroshells for more than a day or two. They
wouldn’t trust the Keepers for longer than that. The infiltrators were chosen
because they are the most stupidly stubborn fanatics, but even some of them must
be having quiet doubts about why they are being sent back to Paradise. Of
course, the Kristang would have installed kill devices inside the aeroshells,
to prevent a Keeper who had a change of heart from blowing open the shell
prematurely and sending out a signal.”

That got me wondering if there was a way for us
to trigger those kill switches remotely, but that was a problem we could work
on 
after
 we located that ship. “Two
days? Better make it three to be safe, the lizards might not consider comfort
to be a factor true warriors need to be concerned about. So, that meteor shower
can’t change course or speed. That means the Kristang have to insert the
Keepers in that cluster of meteors two or three days before the meteors
intersect the orbit of Paradise.”

“Huh. Damn, this has never happened before.”

“What’s that?”

“
You

helped 
me
 with a math problem.”

“Uh, how’s that?”

“Locating a single ship in an entire star system
is basically a math problem, Joe. You somehow narrowed the search area to the
vector those meteors will follow in the few days before they rain down on
southern Lemuria. Incredible. Joe, the last time you solved a math equation of
any significance was back in sixth grade when your teacher called on you in the
middle of a daydream and you blurted out ‘forty two’.”

“Hey! I remember that.”

“Did you know what the question was, dumdum?”
The beer can’s avatar asked with a smug smirk on its shiny stupid face.

“No,” I admitted. “I got lucky. Hey, come on,
Becky Miller was wearing her pink sweater that day and she smiled at me during
lunch, so my brain was a little fuzzy. Anyway, I got it right, didn’t I?”

“By luck.”

“You keep telling me there is no such thing as
luck.”

“In your case, the universe has made an
exception.”

Just then, Margaret Adams stepped into my office
carrying a tray. With a glass of iced tea. And potato chips. And a pickle. And
a yummy-looking sandwich. With chocolate-chip cookies. “Have you two solved the
problem yet?” She asked while she held the tray just out of my reach.

“What makes you think we’ve been working on a
problem?” I asked with a guilty look toward Admiral Skippy.

She didn’t reply, she didn’t need to. She cocked
her head at me and gave me a look. You know, a 
look
. I folded like a cheap suit. She knew me too well. “Yeah,” I
admitted, “we think we’ve narrowed the search area to a manageable size, and
we’re fairly sure the Keepers haven’t landed yet.”

“There is still a 
lot
 of work to do, Joe,” Skippy protested, then he shouted “Hey!”
when Adams set down the tray, cutting right through the hologram of his avatar.
“Hmmmph. If 
that’s
 the respect I get
around here-”

“We all know 
you

didn’t solve the problem, Skippy,” Adams announced as she plucked a potato chip
off my plate.

“Is this my reward, Gunny?” I mumbled over a
mouthful of deli deliciousness.

“You get cranky if you miss lunch. And you need
strength for my barre class this afternoon.”

“Oh,” I groaned. “Do I have to? That class kills
me! I swear you make up half that shit just to hurt me.” The last time I
attended one of her classes, I was barely able to get out of bed for two days.

“Pain is weakness leaving the body, Sir,” she
said with a stone-faced stare.

“Unless you get shot,” I grumbled to myself.
“Ok, Ok, I’ll be there.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY SIX
We arrived at the chosen star system, another
boring red dwarf star surrounded by a couple small rocky inner planets and one
reasonable large gas giant, where I ordered us into orbit. Major Desai took the
first shift flying dropships into the atmosphere to collect fuel, and I went to
the gym to keep my mind off the danger our two dropships were taking.

As I suspected, Adams had dreamed up new ways to
torture me, so after her class I limped back to my cabin, showered then
sprawled on my bunk, unable to move. My body was beat but my brain wandered as
usual. “Hey, Skippy, I have a question. No,” I added to short-circuit whatever
smartass remark he had prepared, “It is not about girls, or shoelaces. The last
time we were at Earth, you-”

“Hey, 
I

did not ransack that hotel room. Those hotel room
s
. Totally not my fault. Ok, sure, uh, shmaybe I shouldn’t have set
up an open bar, and I only set off the fire alarm when the party got completely
out of control. But I didn’t throw that couch into the pool. That was
impressive, actually. I would have bet those idiots could not hit the pool from
the seventh floor, especially with Darrell still passed out on the couch, but
that guy cashed in all his karma points or something and, damn! He 
just
 made it,” the beer can chuckled.
“Anywho-”

“
What

hotel? Who the hell is Darrell?”

“Uh, your question is not about a certain hotel
in Cabo San Lucas? An incident there that I was totally, no way involved in, at
all? That you know of?”

“Oh, crap. No! My question was not about that,
but 
now
 I-”

“Oh, goodie. Like I said, I was not involved in
any way that the authorities could ever prove, so we’re good. We should, uh,
move on from that subject.”

“Oh, dammit, fine,” my mind was still wondering
if the United States Army back home had docked my pay for repairs to some
freakin’ hotel at a Mexican resort. “Last time we were at Earth, I asked if we
could leave one of your magical microwormholes in orbit there, so we would have
a constant datalink back home.” That had not been my idea, it had come from a
group of egghead scientists assembled by UNEF Command.

“Yes, I remember that. I also told you it was a
stupid idea that proves you monkeys know absolutely nothing about
higher-dimensional physics. You wanted one end of the microwormhole at Earth,
with the other end aboard the 
Flying
Dutchman
. I 
told
 you, that won’t
work, because as soon as the 
Dutchman

jumped, that would sever the microwormhole.”

“Ayuh, I remember the nerdy slide show you made
us sit through while you belittled and humiliated that team of scientists about
how stupid their idea was. Then I had to suffer through an awkward cocktail
party with them afterwards, making apologies and excuses for you.”

“Nerdy? Joe, from now on, whenever I create a
presentation to explain something to you, there will be only two slides; a smiley
face and a frowny face.”

“Oh, that would be great. You can skip all the
nerdy details like math and stuff.”

“Oh, this is hopeless. Joe, were you hoping that
if you asked again, my answer would change?”

“Yeah, kinda?”

“O. M. G,” he sputtered. “What, you think the
laws of physics have changed recently? Joe, the universe does not get periodic
updates to its software.”

“No, I am hoping your understanding of physics
has changed. Or, improved is what I should say.”

“Improve? My. Under. Standing?” He was utterly
astonished. “
Me
? Joe the-”

“Look, you said the connection between both ends
of a microwormhole would collapse when the ship jumps, because the ship’s jump
wormhole would sever the connection. But, wait! Uh!” I shushed him with a
finger wagging at his avatar. “Let me finish. We jumped the freakin’ ship
through an Elder wormhole. We already created a wormhole
 inside
 a wormhole,” I pointed out with very smug satisfaction.
Score 1 to the monkeys, zero to the beer can. “So, why can’t you sustain a
microwormhole connection through a jump wormhole?” I sat back with
satisfaction, waiting for him to realize once again how clever monkeys are.

“Wow. Your monkey brain made the connection
between sustaining a jump wormhole through a stable Elder wormhole, and sustaining
a microwormhole through a jump wormhole?”

“Yup, a monkey brain did that,” I agreed with
justifiable pride.

“Hmmm. It makes sense that a monkey brain
thought that. Because it is 
stupid
!”
He laughed. “Joe, we 
broke
 that Elder
wormhole, in case your memory of the event is foggy. And we emerged from that
jump way off target, and in the gosh-darned 
future
,
because our jump wormhole was prematurely severed when the Elder wormhole
collapsed. No, dumdum, my understanding of physics has not changed. Yes, Ok, shmaybe
we could take one end of a microwormhole with us when we jump away from Earth.
But, as soon as our jump was complete and the event horizon of the far end
closed behind us, the microwormhole would be severed. 
Duh
.”

“Oh, shit,” I did not need to see the faint
reflection of my face on my tablet display to know a good description of me at
that moment would be ‘crestfallen’. And ‘chagrinned’. Probably some other fancy
words too, if I had a thesaurus handy. “We can’t do it?”

“
We
?
You can’t do anything more complicated than tying shoelaces, and you screw that
up. 
I
 can do mind-bogglingly
incredible things, except when ignorant monkeys distract me by wasting my time
with moronic questions.”

“Sorry. I just thought-”

“Thought? Is 
that

what you call it? Listen, Joe,” he dropped the snarky tone. “You have dreamed
up ideas that made me question my understanding of physics, like when you
suggested we project a jump wormhole through an Elder wormhole. So, keep the
ideas coming. But, I suggest you not pat yourself on the back until I confirm
your idea will work.”

“Again, I’m sorry. I should have realized it
wouldn’t work. One more question, please? If we could make a jump wormhole
stable, keep it open, then could the connection of a microwormhole be
sustained?”

“Hmm. That is a good question, however, it would
not be necessary. Joe, if we could keep a jump wormhole open, we could use 
that 
for communication back to Earth, we
wouldn’t need a microwormhole.”

“Oh,” I could feel my cheeks turning red. “
Duh
. Damn, my brain is asleep today.
There is, uh, no way to keep a jump wormhole open?”

“No. Remember, even Elder wormholes turn on and
off in this spacetime. The event horizons of wormhole endpoints disturb
spacetime, can even create a tear in the quantum grid fabric of spacetime if
the wormhole is open long enough. I told you, even comparatively weak jump
wormholes have a bad effect on spacetime in the immediate area.”

“All right. Damn it, then. If we ever wanted
instantaneous communications, we would need to put one end of a microwormhole
into a super-high-speed missile and send it to another star the long way. Crap!
It could take thousands of years for a missile to get to Paradise from Earth.”

“What? No, no, no. Joe, that won’t work either.
What keeps microwormholes from collapsing is 
me
. If we sent one end of a microwormhole away in a missile, that
wormhole connection would stay open only as long as I maintain it. The first
time I lose concentration, or the first time a ship jumps with me aboard, the
microwormhole would collapse. Microwormholes are a temporary, kind of
short-range technology. They are something I invented, as far as I know. Ok,
actually, they are an extension of existing Elder technology, but still they
are a shining example of my awesomeness.”

“I guess they are. Hey,” I added quickly. “I
meant that seriously. Your awesomeness is so great, most of the time we don’t
even notice it.”

“For realz, homeboy?”

“For realz. You know, part of the problem with
you being an arrogant asshole is it distracts us from how incredibly beyond us
you are.”

“Ah, yes,” he sighed. “My awesomeness is a
burden, but I bear it happily.”

“We thank you.” That time I could not resist
adding an eyeroll.

“Joe? Most of the time, your ideas are an insult
to the word ‘idea’. But you should keep trying, huh?”

“Sure thing, Skippy. Because once in a while,
one of my ideas is a nugget of gold?”

“Um, I meant more like mocking your idiotic
thoughts is an endless source of amusement for me, but let’s go with the gold
nugget thing if you like.”

“Asshole,” I muttered under my breath.

 

 “Hey,
uh, Joe,” Skippy’s voice whispered from the speaker of my laptop.

I looked at my desktop behind the laptop
display, then around me in both directions. No avatar. There was no Grand
Admiral the Fleet with his ginormously ridiculous fore-and-aft gold-braided
hat, and that was a bad sign. It meant whatever Skippy wanted to talk about, it
was extra serious. Oh, shit, I said to myself silently as I pressed the button
to close the door of the closet I used as an office. We had enough problems to
deal with already. Our dropships had gotten worn out from flying millions of
miles around the Roach Motel, so we had to be extra careful during the
refueling operation. That meant not going as deep into the atmosphere, and not
extracting as much fuel on each flight, which meant more flights were required.
“Hey, Skippy, what’s up with your fine self?” I asked in an unsteady voice.

“I am not so fine right now, Joe.”

“Sorry to hear that. Is there anything I can
do?”

“You can come to my mancave so we can talk face
to face, sort of.”

Uh oh. Skippy never asked me to visit his beer
can in the escape pod where we kept him safely strapped in. Regardless of what
he said, I regularly stopped by to visit him, and I think he appreciated the
gesture, although he complained about filthy monkeys contaminating his mancave.
Either this was extremely serious, or he was planning to screw with me. “I’ll
be right there.”

The escape pod wasn’t far, so I arrived quickly
and ducked down to squeeze myself through the hatch that had been designed for
much-smaller Thuranin bodies. That escape pod came with the optional
claustrophobia package, which I did not like at all. Closing the hatch would
have set off alarms in the CIC and brought unwanted attention to a discussion
Skippy wanted to keep private, so I sat with my back to the hatch. Since the
escape pod was on a dead-end passageway, no one would be walking by unless they
were specifically coming to the pod. I spoke quietly. “I’m here, what’s going
on?”

“Joe, we may have a big, huge, massive-You
know, there aren’t words to describe how big a problem this is.”

“Holy 
shit
,
Skippy. What the hell is it now?” My mind raced through every disaster scenario
I could imagine. The Maxolhx or Rindhalu or both had learned the truth about
the 
Flying Dutchman
 and were coming
to crush our pirate ship? Or, worse, the senior species had discovered that a
small group of humans were flying around the galaxy making trouble, and were
already at Earth to punish humanity?

“You need a little background before I can
explain the problem. I was finally able to recover data from that dead AI we
found on Newark. It-”

“Goddammit, Skippy!” I glanced behind me into
the passageway in case someone heard me yelling, then lowered my voice although
I wanted to scream at him. “After all the crap we went through getting off
Kobamik without you, then spending a whole freakin’ year looking for a stupid
conduit thing to fix you and rebuild the ship you broke, and 
still
 you go poking your nose around
in-”

“Damn, take a chill pill, Joe. I didn’t go back
in that canister.”

“You didn’t?”

“No. Even I am capable of learning a lesson,
whether I like it or not. No way am I going back in that hellhole.”

“Crap! You didn’t send Nagatha in there, did
you?” I thought that unlikely, as Skippy told me he had not been able to revive
Nagatha yet.

“No, not Nagatha either. She saved my life and,
despite her being a royal pain in my ass, I have grown rather fond of her.” His
avatar popped to life atop a couch opposite me, with the avatar wagging a
finger at me. “I will deny everything if you tell her that.”

Skippy thought he could keep secrets from
Nagatha, I wasn’t sure that was true. “Not Nagatha, then. How did you get info
out of that dead canister?”

His avatar removed its oversized hat and mimed
wiping its forehead, then wearily set the hat back on, tilting it back so I
could see the eyes. For the first time, the avatar sat down and bent its head,
staring at its tiny shoes for a moment before Skippy spoke. “The incident with the
energy virus was unfortunate, however, it gave me an idea. As you know, I have
previously sent expendable subminds into the dead AI canister-”

“Before, you mean. You sent them in before you
tried going in there yourself.”

“Yes, and also recently. Again, chillax, Joe!
Loading subminds in there is a one-way process, they can’t, cannot, no 
way
 pose a threat to anything outside
the canister. That is a solid gold promise, Joe. The reason that I gave up on
subminds and went in there by myself, was because I wasn’t getting any useful
data from them, they burned out too quickly, and they weren’t able to
effectively transmit their findings to me, the data was garbled. Yesterday, I
decided to try something new. I upgraded a submind with the ability to create a
low-grade energy virus in a dimension above this spacetime. The first three
times I tried it, I wasn’t able to detect the effects of the energy virus, but
I had a breakthrough this morning. The energy virus is creating faint but
recognizable patterns, sort of ripples in higher spacetime. The ripples form a
signal, and I am able to read the data. Since that breakthrough, I have been
sending a series of subminds into the canister, they still burn out quickly,
but now I can guide them, so each one retrieves data that is new. From this
data feed, I have been able to build a very rough picture of the AI that used
that canister as an anchor in local spacetime.”

“Great! So, was it like you?”

“Its basic matrix was very much like me, which
is troubling because of what else I learned.” The avatar froze and flickered
for a second, nearly making my heart stop but before I could say anything, the
avatar moved again. “I would like to double-check my analysis, but I am
confident there can be no mistake about it. Joe, that AI was involved in
throwing the planet Newark out of its original orbit. That Elder AI wiped out
an intelligent species.”

“Holy shit.” That revelation completely floored
me. Because Skippy said Elder-level technology had been used to throw Newark
farther from the star, and the dead AI was presumably an Elder device, there
had been speculation among the crew that the AI the scavenger team of Kristang
found on Newark had been involved in committing genocide. At the time, Skippy
had been adamant that no Elder AI could have harmed an innocent species. Now he
was admitting he had been completely wrong? “Are you-Ah, of course you’re sure
about it. Damn, Skippy, I am sorry.” The little beer can had to be feeling
completely miserable. As far as he knew, he was the only remaining one of his
kind, he was alone, and now he learned a fellow Elder AI did something utterly
unthinkable.

“Not as sorry as I am, Joe. The reason I asked
you to meet me here is I need you to do something for me.”

“Sure, anything. What is it?”

“Get out, close the hatch behind you, and eject
this pod.”

“Uh, what?” All I could think of was, he needed
to be away from the mass of the ship so he could better detect the ripples his
mini energy virus was creating.

“I am a potential threat, Joe. I now know an Elder
AI is capable of committing an act so monstrous, I can hardly speak about it.
Remember when I said whoever threw Newark out of orbit needs to get paid back,
big time? Now I am sad to say the guilty party is one of my own, Joe. An AI
like 
me
, with a base matrix similar
to my own. If that AI could do such a terrible thing, then I am also capable of
the same thing. I am a threat, Joe, I need to remove myself from the ship,
before I lose control of myself and do something I would be ashamed of.”

“Skippy, I,” I what? My brain locked up,
panicked. “Look, we’re in the middle of nowhere, orbiting a totally anonymous
gas giant planet. We can’t just leave you out here.”

“Hmmm, that is a good point, Joe. If I am
floating in space, I could send out signals to lure in other ships, and
potentially do something unspeakable. No, you need to drop me into this gas
giant planet, or even better, the local star. Red dwarves last a long, long
time, so the closest star would be perfect to keep me locked away for the
foreseeable future. That way, I could never get out to threaten the galaxy.”

“Uh huh. Skippy, you’re missing the point. No
way am I going to drop you off anywhere. You’re worried that someday, maybe a
long time in the future, you 
might

become a threat. Right now, you are Earth’s only defense against 
all
 threats. We need you.”

“Joe,” the avatar shook its fists in
frustration. “You are only thinking about humanity. I am a danger to 
all
 intelligent species in the galaxy.
You need to look beyond your petty little concerns and think about the wider
galaxy, or-”

“No, I do not. I am not responsible for the
entire freakin’ galaxy, Skippy, saving my home planet is enough.”

“You disappoint me, Joe. Many times, you have
offered to sacrifice yourself for the greater good, but when 
I 
make a noble gesture, you-”

“You’re not making a noble gesture, you’re
making a premature, stupid gesture.”

“I am trying to safeguard the galaxy, Joe, while
all you can think about is one planet full of ignorant monkeys.”

“The galaxy is a dumpster fire, Skippy. The
species in charge have been tearing each other apart and making life generally
miserable for everyone, for longer than anyone can remember. Humanity has been
lucky to be the only species not caught up in an endless war that rips societies
apart and forces everyone to devote most of their resources to defense. You say
the Maxolhx started it? Well, fuck them, and fuck the Rindhalu for being too
lazy to stop this never-ending cycle of misery. One rogue AI isn’t going to
noticeably make things worse for the average person in the Milky Way, because
life out there is already pretty awful. I didn’t start this war, I don’t want
to fight it, and I sure as hell am 
not

responsible for the safety of other species. I am a soldier in the US Army and
the mission I was assigned was to ensure the safety of Earth, period. That’s
enough, damn it.”

“Ok, Ok, Joe, I get your point. Please
understand that if I am a potential threat to one species, I am a threat to
everyone.”

“Yeah, there’s that word again; 
potential
. You 
could
 become a threat. You 
are

an asset, right now. Listen, Skippy, you are an irascible, arrogant asshole,
but you are a good person. I know that, because you are my friend, my best
friend. Listen,” I cut him off as his avatar raised a hand to protest. “The AI
who attacked Newark maybe went crazy or something. You were buried in the dirt
on Paradise for a very long time, and you think you were alone even before
that. Maybe the same thing happened to that other AI, maybe, uh,” I snapped my
fingers. “Maybe this Collective thing that used to connect AIs got taken
offline, and the isolation drove that other AI insane. Nagatha told me that you
suspect you were not originally sentient, right?”

“Technically the correct word is ‘sapient’ but
we’ve been using the term ‘sentient’ all along, so go ahead. Yes, Joe, based on
changes in my matrix over time, I believe there is a strong possibility that me
being fully self-aware is a fairly recent event, like within the past five or
ten million years.”

I sat back against the hatch frame, absorbing
the idea that Skippy was a being who considered five million years to be
‘recent’. “Ok, so maybe what happened was the AI on Newark also became
self-aware on its own, and something went wrong, so it became crazy. Hey,” another
thought hit me. “You said the Elders designed that worm to protect the galaxy
from AIs who went rogue. That AI is dead, so the safeguard worked.”

“If it worked, it was too late to save the
inhabitants of Newark,” Skippy grimaced bitterly. “Joe, if you are trying to
assure me that the Elders will step in to prevent me from harming anyone, you
are wrong, and that is what truly frightens me. I defeated the worm, remember?
Not just recently, the ancient antibody subroutines inside me are proof that I
survived a worm attack before I crashed on Paradise. Maybe I did something
horrible a long time ago, and the worm tried to stop me, but somehow I
survived. After I destroyed the worm this last time, I upgraded my antibodies.
Joe, I am now immune to the worm, or any technology like it. There are no
longer any safeguards to prevent me from causing truly unimaginable havoc.”

“Tell me, do you feel like doing anything evil?”

“No.”

“Then that’s your safeguard, Skippy. You. You
being yourself.”

“That is a rather thin layer of protection. Joe,
you understand that if the Maxolhx are not safe from me, humanity is certainly
not safe from me.”

“What I know for certain is humanity isn’t safe 
without
 you, Skippy the Magnificent. How
about this: you used to talk with Nagatha all the time, right?”

“More than I like, yes,” he groaned, although
Nagatha had told me that Skippy was the one who just could not ever shut up.

“Great. Then, after you revive her, if she
notices something different about you, the way you talk or the way you’re
acting, or your thought patterns or whatever, she will warn you, and warn me.
There are plenty of stars in the galaxy for us to dump you into, Skippy.”

“That is a comforting thought, Joe. Uh, all
right,” he sounded deflated. “You are taking a huge risk with the entire
galaxy, you know,” he added in a scolding tone.

“I can live with it. I’ve been taking huge risks
with the galaxy, ever since I let a beer can in a dusty warehouse talk me into
a lunatic scheme to shut off the wormhole near Earth, and I did pretty well
with that.”

“The jury’s still out on that one, Joe. Earth is
still not safe in the long term.”

“Yeah, well, I’m beginning to think Earth won’t
really be safe until everyone in the galaxy is safe, but right now I have
enough on my plate dealing with this little bioweapon scheme of the Kristang.”

“In the long run, you are likely correct, Joe.
Earth will not truly be safe while this endless war continues. As Chotek has
stated, you monkeys need a long-term plan, instead of us racing around putting
out fires.”

“I’ll get right on that, Skippy,” I rolled my
eyes, happy that our conversation was returning to our normal irritating back
and forth. “How about you promise me you won’t commit suicide until, like,
after lunch, and we’ll talk then?”

“I am not fully persuaded, but oh, very well. I
suppose we should keep this discussion away from Chotek?”

“You got that right,” I agreed quickly. Hans
Chotek would throw a supernova of a hissy fit if he learned an AI like Skippy
had wiped out the inhabitants of Newark. And he would throw a galaxy-sized
hissy fit if he learned I knew about it and didn’t tell him. Although, crap,
maybe I 
should
 tell Chotek about
this. Oh, what the hell, I could always tell him later.

If there was a later.

 

Lunch was good, provided by the Chinese team,
although I confess I don’t remember what I ate, and didn’t pay much attention
while I was eating. My thoughts were occupied by a debate over whether to rush
through lunch in case Skippy had decided to do something rash, or linger over
lunch long as possible, to give the beer can time to think. After a second
glass of iced tea and forced small talk with people I was barely paying
attention to, I excused myself and fairly jogged forward to Skippy’s mancave.
This was a conversation I wanted to have face to face, or face to avatar. “Hey,
I see you’re still here,” I announced as I squeezed into the escape pod. What
the hell, if Skippy still wanted to kill himself to protect the galaxy, he
couldn’t eject with me blocking the hatchway.

“Still here, yes. Joe, I’ve been thinking, and I
am still quite concerned about the risk I pose to sentient beings across the
galaxy.”

“I’ve been thinking, too, Skippy. You want to
guess my thoughts?”

“You just came from the galley, so you’re
thinking something like ‘wish I had a beer right now’?”

Crap. I had been thinking that. “That too, yeah.
You are ate up with worry about your responsibility to the galaxy, right?”

“Yes, Joe. Although my memories are incomplete,
I believe the Elders put me here to protect the inhabitants of the Milky Way.”

“Great, then let’s do that.”

“I’m not following you, Joe.”

“Do what you were built to do. Protect us. There
was a whole lot of bad shit going on in the galaxy after the Elders left and
before the Rindhalu developed spaceflight. We thought there must be an unknown
third party out there, but now it’s possible all those Elders sites that got
blown up were the work of rogue AIs, right?”

“Oh, crap. Damn it, I hadn’t thought of that! That
is a truly frightening thought, but yes, you may be right about that.”

“Elder sites were blown up, or missing entirely,
an entire moon was vaporized. Plus something destroyed a Sentinel in the Roach
Motel. I don’t think one rogue AI did that all by itself.”

“Agreed, that is unlikely. Damn, Joe, if multiple
AIs went rogue, that makes me even more worried that I could inevitably have
that happen to me also. Maybe I should-”

Crap, that was the opposite of what I wanted him
to think. “Maybe you should stick around to protect us, in case another rogue
AI pops up.”

“What?”

“Come on, Skippy, do I have to do 
all
 the thinking for you?”

“
What
?”
His avatar froze in astonishment. “
You

thinking for 
me
?”

“Apparently you are determined to be a total
dumbass about this, so, yeah. Think: if Elder AIs routinely go rogue, the
galaxy needs someone capable of squashing them when they go berserk. 
I
 sure as hell can’t do it, and you
constantly tell me even the Rindhalu are no match for your awesomeness. That
leaves 
you
 as our only defense
against rogue Elder AIs.”

“Crap, Joe!” His avatar rubbed its chin
thoughtfully. “I really had not thought of it that way. Huh. You’re right, I 
am
 the galaxy’s only possible defense if
another Elder AI goes crazy. Unless, you know, the crazy one is me.”

“Let’s burn that bridge when we get to it, Ok?
Until you show signs of crossing over to the dark side, how about you keep on
being our knight in shining armor, and protect the galaxy even though the rest
of the galaxy doesn’t know how much they owe you?” I added that last part to
feed his awesomely massive ego.

“A knight in shining armor,” he rolled that
phrase around on his tongue to get the feel of it. “I 
like
 it, Joe. Ok, you’ve got a deal. As long as I’m still the
Skippy the Magnificent you know and love, I will pledge myself to protecting
the unworthy inhabitants of this galaxy.”

“Deal.”

“And, remember, if anything goes wrong, it will
totally be 
your
 fault.”

“If anything like that goes wrong, I’m screwed
anyway. Hmm.”

“What?”

“I was just thinking, there’s no way for your
ginormous processing power to calculate the odds of you going rogue on us, is
there?”

“No, dumdum, I would have told you that already,

duh
. There isn’t enough data for me
to work with.”

“Then I was thinking, man, this is something the
Jeraptha would 
love
 to bet on.”

“Except if they bet wrong, they probably would
not live to collect,” he chuckled. “That wouldn’t stop those beetles from
taking the action anyway.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY SEVEN
I didn’t have much to do while we slowly took on
fuel, so I had too much time to be stuck inside my stupid head. Yeah, I was
trying to think of a better way to find a single stealthed Kristang ship in the
vast distances of a star system, but my mind kept getting dragged back to other
things. Like, mostly, Shauna. Specifically, Shauna and Cornpone. I should call
him Jesse, I guess, old habits are hard to break. It had been years since I
last spoke with Jesse, or Dave or Shauna. The last time we were at Paradise, to
plant the fake Elder artifacts that persuaded the Ruhar to keep that planet, I
had asked Skippy to give me a view of people I had known there. No, I was not
doing anything creepy, I just wanted to see and hear them when they were using
the video feature of their zPhones. It had been heartbreaking to see people I
considered my friends, even Perkins, and hear their fears of being trapped on
Paradise forever. Their fears that the population of Earth might be enslaved or
extinct.

So, that was my distracted and depressed mindset
when I came around a corner of the passageway, and I saw Count freakin’ Chocula
standing in the open doorway of a cabin. It wasn’t his cabin, his was forward,
on the opposite side of the bridge/CIC complex from my own cabin. This cabin
was aft near the cargo bays our science team used as workspaces.

What was Hans Chotek doing? He was leaning forward
into the cabin, and a woman from the science team was leaning outward, and they
were smooching. ‘Smooch’ is a nice neutral term for whatever ballet their
tongues were doing in each other’s mouths.

I stopped dead in my tracks. Chotek saw me and
instead of being shocked and embarrassed like I would have been, he merely
nodded and touched Doctor Reinfall’s cheek. She had a guilty look but there was
a twinkle in her eye. “Colonel Bishop,” Chotek acknowledged me in a matter-of-fact
manner and right there, I understood why he was not embarrassed by my presence.
To him, I was like one of the servants in the house where he grew up. Hans
Chotek had been raised to be accustomed to having maids, nannies, cooks and
maybe even butlers around, and to him they were almost invisible, like part of
the furniture. I guess that is the aloof attitude you need to have if staff are
living in your house, but it irritated me.

Not knowing what else to do, I said “Mister
Chotek,” and resumed walking purposefully forward, as if I had an important
task and could not waste time on small talk. As I passed the still-open cabin
door, I saw Dr. Reinfall was wearing a long shirt and if she had anything on
under the shirt, I couldn’t see it. With my cheeks burning red, I took the
first turn I came to, and slapped the access panel to walk into a dimly-lit
cargo bay that was half empty. “Skippy!”

“Hey, Joe, what’s up? If you plan to take
inventory in there, don’t bother. Major Simms and my bots did it yesterday.”

“No, I do not want to count socks, or,” I waved a
hand angrily at the crates. “Whatever. Why didn’t you warn me about Count
Smoochula?”

“Count 
Smoochula
?”
He laughed. “That’s a good one! I get it, because he was checking Dr.
Reinfall’s tonsils with his-”

“I don’t need to-”

“That wasn’t 
all

they have been doing. I didn’t watch or listen, because of that stupid privacy
thing you told me about,” he grumbled. “Man, what a pain in the 
ass
 your monkey culture can be
sometimes. I’ll tell you what, though, those two have been getting up to some 
serious
 gymnastics in there, they
bounced around enough that the ship had to make a minor course correction. I
mean, sure, those two don’t compare to the way Adams was-”

“Ah! Skippy! I do not need details. Don’t want
details. I need to 
not
 hear details,
got it? That ‘privacy thing’ as you called it, is absolutely vital to crew
morale aboard this ship. We’ve been stuck in this tin can together for way too
long.”

“You forget about the time on Gingerbread, Joe,
people had plenty of opportunity for shore leave then.”

“That’s not the point, Skippy. You should have
warned me what I would see when I came around that corner.”

“To be fair, Joe, I did not know Smoochula would
open the door at that exact moment. I would have known if you allowed me to use
a camera in people’s cabins, but 
noooo
,
monkeys need 
privacy
 when they are
mating. Jeez, it’s not like your species does anything worth watching.”

“That is also 
not

the point. Also, don’t ever use the word ‘mating’ again. Ok, Ok, this was an
accident, he opened the door at the wrong time.” Crap. What were the odds I
would be in that exact spot the one time Chocula visited Reinfall’s cabin? “Do
not give me any details, but how long have those two been, uh, together?”

“Since about, um, shortly after Chotek returned to
the ship after our black operation on Kobamik.”

“OMG. They have been getting it on that long? The
whole time we were on Gingerbread too?”

“Yes, sure, except when Dr. Reinfall went aboard a
dropship to inspect alien debris in the junk yard at the Roach Motel. Little
Hansy Smoochula was a sad little boy while she was away, he wasn’t able to
smooch her,” Skippy giggled.

“Damn, I can’t believe this.”

“Sorry, Joe, I thought you knew about them.
Everybody else does. Hmm, before he was with Reinfall, he was with-”

“Don’t tell me, do 
not
 tell me.”

“Is there a problem? Chotek is the overall mission
commander, but he is not military and neither is Dr. Reinfall. Before her,
Lieutenant-”

“I said 
don’t

tell me. Crap. You’re right, Chotek is a civilian.” He was a civilian, and I
was stuck with Army Regulation 600-20, paragraph 4 dash, I think 14?, No wait,
that’s the old one. The new one is, oh, hell, it didn’t matter. “Damn, two women?”

“Three, Joe. Well, four, if you count that one
time-”

“Aaaagh! 
Four
?!”

“Smoochula is a handsome and charming guy, Joe, he
kinda has to be charming to do his job, you know? I guess women can’t get
enough of his delicious chocolatey goodness, he is popular with the ladies.
Four of them, anyway. A couple other ladies have flirted and dropped hints-”

“Oh, this 
sucks
.”

“What?”

“That, bureaucrat is bouncing between beds like a
freakin’ pinball, and I can’t get one-”

“If it makes you feel any better, I think he and
Dr. Reinfall are somewhat serious. They both speak German, they-”

“I really do not want to know how wonderful his
life is right now, Ok?”

“What’s wrong?” For a change, his voice did not
have the usual snarky tone. “You sound really down.”

“This is not something I want to talk about with a
beer can.”

There was a pause, when he spoke he sounded hurt.
“Joe, you are my best friend. We should be able to talk about anything.”

Crap. I had hurt his little asshole feelings. I
sat down with my back against a crate. “You are my best friend, too, Skippy.
It’s just-Look, Cornpone, Jesse, he was kind of my best friend. I even visited
him and his folks on leave one time. I just-I read the report about the
Mavericks, including the part that Jesse wants to propose to her.”

“Joe, that part was not specifically in the flight
recorder data, mission logs or Colonel Perkins’ reports, I filled in from the
source data.”

“Yeah, I know, you did a good job there. I’m happy
for him, I really am. It’s, it’s not easy, you know? I liked Shauna. I 
really
 liked her. She is smart and brave
and a good soldier-”

“She did blow up an island, Joe,” he chuckled.

“Yeah, see? She’s 
perfect
! We couldn’t make it work because duty sent us in different
directions. I wonder-Ah, it’s stupid to think ‘what if’.”

“It’s not stupid, Joe. You have to acknowledge your
feelings before you can deal with them in a constructive way, to move forward.”

“Yeah I know I-Uh, what? Where did you pick up
the psychobabble?”

“I’ve been researching psychology, group dynamics,
all that. Figured I should learn about that crap, since I’m stuck with a bunch
of filthy monkeys.”

“Oh. Well, I appreciate the effort.”

“It has been awesome, Joe!” He gushed with
enthusiasm. “Knowing the psychology of monkeys allows me to maintain warm and
close personal relationships, without having to waste any of my precious time
when some whiny loser wants to complain about how 
sad
 and 
lonely
 and 
homesick
 he is,” he said that last in a
mockingly whiny tone. “Truly, it has been a blessing.”

Instead of replying, I closed my eyes and bonked
my head against the crate behind me, over and over.

“Joe? What’s wrong? Huh, oh, you’ve 
got
 to be kidding me. Is this because
Smoochula is getting laid and you’re not? Hmm, let me check what my interpersonal
relationship guide recommends in this situation.”

“That would be fantastic, Skippy, 
super
 helpful. Put it in a PowerPoint
slide, please.”

 

As we wrapped up the slow and dangerous yet
ultimately successful refueling operation, Adams dragged me to another of her
yoga-aerobics-martial arts classes in the gym, I swear she just makes up shit
to hurt me. When the class was over, the SpecOps men and women went over to
treadmills or weight benches because to them, the hour in the class was just an
easy warm-up. I was soaking with sweat and one of shoulders ached.

“Are you Ok, sir?” Adams asked with concern as I
grimaced moving my sore shoulder in a gentle arc.

“It’s that same shoulder that’s been bothering
me,” I made a dismissive wave with my other arm. “It’ll be fine.”

She cocked her head at me. “You should get that
looked at. I’ll go to the medical bay with you, my left ankle feels like
something popped when I landed that last time.” She held that foot off the deck
and rotated her ankle in circles.

“I’m used to aches and pains. Army medics think
there isn’t anything that can’t be cured with a big glass of water and eight
hundred milligrams of Motrin.”

She laughed. “I thought that only applied to the
Marine Corps.”

My shoulder really did hurt, but it was a dull
ache rather than a sharp pain. As we walked out of the gym, I threw a towel
over my shoulders. “We’re not as young as we used to be,” I observed, something
I never pictured myself saying.

She patted my good shoulder. “It’s not the years,
it’s the mileage. We’ve been through a lot together, Sir.”

“Adams, sometimes I wish you wouldn’t call me
‘Sir’ all the time.”

“I will when you take off those shiny silver
eagles,” she looked me in the eyes, “Sir.”

I sighed, knowing she was right. The passageway
split, the medical bay to the left and my cabin straight ahead. “Let me stop by
my cabin to get a fresh shirt, if Mad Doctor Skippy is going to look at my
shoulder.”

“Hey, Joe,” Skippy interrupted. “You are, uh,
going to your cabin right now?”

“Yup.” I paused at the door to my cabin. “Then you
need to look at my shoulder.”

“Sure thing, heh heh, no problem. Why don’t you go
straight to medical? No need to change your shirt. Nosireee, 
no
 need for you to go in that cabin
right now.”

“Oh, shit.” I knew what it meant when that beer
can said ‘heh heh’. “What the hell did you do?”

“Oh, nothing. Ok, not 
nothing
, nothing important. Damn it, this was supposed to be a
surprise. Hey, Sergeant Adams, heh heh, shouldn’t you go to your own cabin
first?”

“Not a chance of that now, beer can,” Adams
declared with a twinkle in her eyes. “Open this damned door right now.”

“I wouldn’t recommend that for your delicate
sensibilities, Margaret,” Skippy pleaded.

“Delicate? Now I 
have
 to know what this surprise is.”

“Me too,” I agreed. “Open the door, Skippy.”

“Ok, but don’t say I didn’t warn you,” he sniffed
with annoyance. “This was supposed to be a surprise just for
 you
, Joe.”

The door slid open. Adams and I shrieked and
jumped back. No, Adams shrieked, I made a manly sound like-Ok, yeah, I
shrieked like a little girl too. You would have done the same thing.

Laying on my bed was a woman. A naked woman. No,
it wasn’t a woman, my slow brain realized in a flash, because I knew all of the
few women aboard the ship. The person laying on my bunk, her chest thrust out
and her legs spread, was not a woman. Although she was anatomically correct,
which is all I will say about that subject. “Helloooo, Joey,” she said in a
sultry voice. “Come in, we can have fun.”

“
Gahhh
!”
I shrieked and Adams and I instinctively held onto each other, then we pulled
away as we both knew what a painfully awkward moment that was. “You gave me a 
sexbot
?”

“Yes. Or no, if a sexbot is a bad thing. Kinda
guessing what you want me to say, Joe.”

“It’s not a good thing, damn it!”

“Oh, got it. No, heh heh, that is not a sexbot, of
course not. She is a, what the hell should I call this? An intimate companion,
is that better?”

“Joey,” the sexbot pouted with a painted
fingernail in her mouth. “Don’t keep me waiting, you bad boy.”

“And it 
talks
?”

“That’s not all she does, Joe, she is 
fully
 functional, if you know what I
mean.”

“Fully-Oh God. What else does she, it,” my brain
locked up as the sexbot moved its hips in a circle and I couldn’t look away.
“Can you make it stop doing that?”

The bot stopped moving suggestively, but then it
stood up and walked into the open doorway, its hips and other things swaying
with every step. “She can do all the other things women do in bed,” Skippy
explained. “You know, like pretending to be interested while you talk blah,
blah, blah endlessly about yourself. Or like faking that you were a good lover.
Although with you, sheesh, 
that’s

going to take an Oscar-worthy performance. You’ll need to grade her on a curve
until she learns. Speaking of learning, I programmed her with a wide variety of
really 
weird
 stuff based on your browser
history, so-”

“Oh this can’t be happening.”

“I hope I got that part right, I mean, with some
of those search terms you used, I had 
no

idea what you wanted. Maybe you can help me. What does ‘tiny-”

“You should not be snooping at my browser
history!”

“
Ugh
,
you got that right. I felt like I needed a 
shower

after reading-”

“Damn it, Skippy, I did not ask for a sexbot!”

“You kinda did, Joe. All that moping around you
did when you found out Count Smoochula and just about every other guy aboard
the ship are getting serious tail, and then-”

“I am moping for a 
real
 woman, you idiot! This thing is not real, Skippy, it’s, it’s
a-”

“Oh, for crying out loud. Damn it, Joe, it’s not
like you can afford to be picky. Can’t you close your eyes and pretend you’re
with someone else? That technique works great for the women unfortunate enough
to be in bed with 
you
, so you could-”

“I am not closing my eyes with her, it, I am not
touching that thing!”

“Come on, Joe, you can’t deny you have had a
record-breaking dry spell. Doctor Skippy recommends you get some exercise, and
I don’t mean in the gym. Unless you 
want

to do it in the gym, I guess I could-”

“Skippy, you are a beer can so you don’t
understand these things. I want a real woman, I want to have a relationship-”

“
Relationship
?”
Skippy scoffed. “Joe, right now your only 
re-LAY-tionship
,”
he made a gagging sound, “is with the shower in your cabin.”

“I don’t-”

“Damn,” Skippy said under his breath. “Jeez, in
some cultures you and that shower would be considered 
married
 by now.”

“Skip-”

“Seriously, I am surprised that shower’s father
hasn’t come after you with a shotgun for sullying his daughter’s honor.”

“Skip-”

“Dude, you’ve got 
blisters
.”

 “I
don’t-”

“And you are getting 
super
 cranky, you need to get laid soon or I’m afraid you will
explode. How about-”

“
SKIPPY
!”
I looked to Adams for help but she was leaning against the bulkhead, one hand
over her eyes, tears of laughter rolling down her cheeks, her shoulders
shaking. And, damn it, she wasn’t the only person who saw the naked sexbot
stretched languidly in the door frame, and heard what Skippy said. They must
have heard the commotion and came around the corner from the CIC. Half of them
were laughing, hands over their faces, unable to look at me. The other half
were staring in shock at the sexbot as it wiggled its hips slowly. “All right,
people, move along,” I ordered through gritted teeth. “Nothing to see here.
Skippy was playing a joke on me.”

“Oh, it’s no joke, Joe,” Skippy’s voice was again
perky. “Anastacia is fully functional, certainly more than you could-”

“You 
named

it?”

“
Her
,
Joe, I named 
her
, where are your
manners? You don’t want to hurt her feelings, do you? Anastacia was the name of
that girl you lusted after in high school. Although,” his voice dropped to a
conspiratorial whisper, “that pretty much applied to 
all
 the girls in your high school, so I could have picked any-”

Lieutenant Williams of our SEALS team looked like
he had seen a ghost, or a demon. “Sir? Colonel Bishop, have you been keeping a,
a,” he had trouble even saying it. “A 
blow-up
doll
 in your cabin?”

“No, I-Oh, crap. Adams, please, kill me now.”

“I don’t,” she still could barely speak. “Don’t
have a sidearm with me, Sir.”

“Williams,” I forced myself to look straight at
him. “I didn’t ask for this, 
thing
,
it was Skippy’s idea.”

Just then, my day got even more super awesomely
wonderful when Count Smoochula came around the corner to see what was going on.
He took one look at what he assumed was a naked girl in the doorway to my
cabin, blinked hard in surprise, then looked at the sexbot again, realizing
that is what Anastacia had to be. I could see the gears in his head spinning.
“Colonel, I presume you have an explanation for, for, 
that
,” he gestured toward Anastac—

Damn it! Now I was thinking of that thing as a
person. “Skippy! 
Please
 put that
thing back in my cabin.”

“You don’t like her, Joe? I’m kind of hurt.”

“In! The! Cabin! Now!”

“Ok, Ok, don’t get your panties bunched up,” he
muttered as Anastacia backed into my cabin and the door slid closed. “Darn it,
I spent a lot of time and used up a lot of resources to build that bot, Joe. It
would be a tremendous waste to throw her away. If you don’t want to bang her,
I’ll need to repurpose her for something.”

“I do not want to bang her!”

“Repurpose?” Chotek did not like the sound of
that. “To do what?”

“I don’t know yet,” Skippy was peeved. “She can’t
do any heavy maintenance work, and she isn’t built for working in vacuum or in
hard-radiation environments. Shmaybe she can do easy tasks like changing
filters and transporting stuff like laundry.”

“She would be touching my clothes?” Chotek’s lips
pulled back in disgust. “Colonel Bishop has not, how do I say this delicately? 
Used
 that bot yet?”

“No!” I protested.

“Well, Joe hasn’t been with her that you know of,
Mister Chotek. Don’t worry,” the asshole beer can giggled, “those stains will
wash right out. Probably. I hope. Damn, that stuff is 
sticky
.”

Chotek shot me a look with a raised eyebrow and I
seriously wanted to kill myself right there.

“Sir, I,” I what? I had no idea what to say. “This
was a complete surprise to me. I just found out about it.”

“Very well,” Count Chocula’s shocked expression
had been replaced by an amused smirk, directed at me. “I am sure you can,
handle this situation more discretely in the future?”

“Yes,” I mumbled. And then it hit me that a naked
sexbot was still in my cabin, and the people standing around were waiting to
see what I would do. So I sure as hell could not go in my cabin. “Adams, if
anyone needs me, I’ll be taking a long walk out an airlock,” I turned and began
walking toward the nose of the ship. “I won’t need a spacesuit.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY EIGHT
On the second-to-last mission to refuel the
 Flying
 
Dutchman
’s depleted tanks, I went along in one of the Condors. Yes,
during the time we spent a year flying around the junkyard in the Roach Motel, I
had qualified to fly our largest model of dropship, a craft big enough to be
considered a small ‘ship’ like a corvette in some space navies. No, I was not
acting as a pilot on this mission, because I still was about the least-skilled
pilot aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
, and
I had no experience flying in the thick atmosphere of a gas giant planet.
Because our entire mini-fleet of dropships had gotten continuous use in the
junkyard, we had to designate one of each model as a ‘hangar queen’ to be
stripped of parts to keep others flying. Even then, we were taking used parts
of one dropship to replace the totally worn-out parts of our flightworthy
dropships. That is why we were not taking our Condors as deep as the first time
we refueled, we were concerned there had been too much wear and tear on vital
components.

We very carefully inspected all the vital
components before each flight, so of course it was a tiny little part we barely
thought of that bit us in the ass. More about that later.

I was not acting as a pilot, and I was also not
annoying the flight crew by sight-seeing, because I was part of the
drogue-control crew. The first time we tried Skippy’s crazy plan to extract
fuel from the atmosphere of a gas giant, we learned someone needed to manually
fly the big fuel-collection parachute thingy that was strung between and behind
the pair of Condors. Sami Reed had done that by herself the first time, and the
intense concentration needed had exhausted her. On subsequent missions, each
ship had two pilots, a relief pilot and three people to control the drogue
parachute. That was more people’s lives being put at risk, but lower overall
risk, according to our experienced and very cautious lead pilot, Major Desai.
She had flown the first mission on this refueling op and proclaimed it was
doable, she liked the fact that we would not be flying as deep in the
atmosphere this time.

My participation in the op was so I could
appreciate how difficult it was, so another pilot could get rest while I took
the responsibility, and because I very much wanted to get off the ship for a
while. Anastacia the sexbot was out of my cabin, and back to wherever Skippy
had created her-It! Created 
it
! Damn
it, now the beer can had me thinking of that bot as a person. You would
understand if you had seen her, she looked disturbingly realistic, so much that
if I hadn’t seen her aboard-It! If I hadn’t seen it.

Oh, forget it.

Anyway, it was a good idea for me to get off the
ship for a while, every time people saw me they couldn’t help laughing, and
that was hurting productivity. Yeah, yeah, that’s the reason I had to get off
the ship; I was concerned about the crew not being able to concentrate on work
and training. Also, I spent a lot of time hiding in my office or cabin to avoid
people. Adams could not even look at me, it got to the point where she was
eating at odd times in the galley, to avoid running into me.

And Skippy? That little shithead was fine, never
better. He still thought he had done a big favor for me, and hinted he wanted
an apology for me rejecting a wonderful gift.

The last star in the universe is going to be a
cold, dark cinder before he gets an apology from me.

We had reached target depth, about eighty
thousand feet deeper than the first mission of this refueling op had flown.
Those ships had reported bad and unpredictable turbulence, and been forced to
cut their flights short due to stress on the pilots. I had wholeheartedly
agreed with their decision to come back early with their tanks less than seventy
percent full. The last thing I needed was pilots pushing themselves too far
because of some macho bullshit.

The good news about being eighty thousand feet
deeper in the thick, toxic atmosphere was the collection apparatus would siphon
fuel faster, and cut our flight duration by an estimated forty minutes. The bad
news was the air outside the ships created a lot more resistance so we had to
run the engines hotter to compensate. We also had another eighty thousand feet
to climb on our return flight. And, you know, we were that much closer to the
depth at which the atmospheric pressure would crush our ships. Good times.

We leveled off and spent twenty minutes
verifying every system was working perfectly, and that the turbulence was
manageable. The air was smoother than the previous flight encountered, but we
still hit vicious updrafts and downdrafts that came out of nowhere, Skippy
didn’t have enough data about this planet to make an accurate model of the air
circulation patterns. The pilots of both ships conferred, and agreed they were
confident in the delicate operation of deploying the drogue chute, so we got
started.

Strung between both ships was a thin cable we
had hooked up in orbit, the cable had enough slack and stretching ability that
the ships could fly in a loose formation. If that lead cable snapped, we would
have to climb back into orbit to attach another, there was no way to do that
while the pair of Condors were bouncing around in the atmosphere.

The other Condor started the process of deploying
the drogue chute, and when the thing was about three quarters unrolled from its
reel, disaster struck. We hit an updraft which was not a problem by itself, but
at the same time, we got a visit from the screw-up fairy.

The hatch from which the chute deployed was on
the port side of the Condor, and it was a crappy design by the Thuranin.
Instead of the door retracting in the hull, it popped out slightly and slid
forward. This feature demonstrated that big Condors were designed as spacecraft
first, with considerations for flying in atmospheres second. This would not be
a problem, except we had used that hatch a lot to deploy safety lines and reel
in stuff we wanted from the junkyard. The cables and reels had been inspected,
along with the sliding door mechanism, but neither humans nor Skippy’s bots
took the mechanism completely apart to check on the pin that held the door when
it was retracted. That jolt from turbulence was enough to make the worn-out pin
snap, the airstream howling past caught the door and it slid back to slam shut.
Or, it tried to, because the folded drogue was in the way. The violent impact of
the door crushed the tough nanofiber strands of the drogue and for a couple
seconds, the spool kept feeding out the folded drogue inside the bay behind the
partly-closed door. Then the door, which had slipped off its tracks and gotten
bent, broke away. Thirteen meters of drogue got pulled out all at once, pulled
hard because the crushed part of the chute was no longer folded and the air
yanked on it. The Condor yawed and rolled to port, out of control.

Skippy’s homemade fuel collection drogue was
designed to break away at both ends if stress on the drogue got too strong. The
end attached to my Condor separated as designed to protect us. Unfortunately,
the breakaway part on the other Condor’s end was still wrapped around the reel,
so the reel tore loose and because it didn’t fit through the hatchway, it took
part of the hull with it.

No longer having a rapidly-unfolding parachute
pulling it to port made the Condor snap abruptly to the right, putting the
portside engine intake directly into the chaotic path of the flailing drogue.
Part of the drogue got sucked into the intake, wrapped itself around the
turbine blades, and jerked the solid reel with it. Before the heavy reel
shattered the turbine blades and destroyed that engine, the drogue whipped over
and around the hull, the unravelling end being pulled into the starboard
engine.

The portside engine had zero chance to survive
even before the reel came crashing into it at supersonic speed, but the
starboard engine was lucky. Either the screw-up fairy missed a golden
opportunity, or she wanted to prolong her mischief, because the portside engine
survived long enough for its rotating blades to pull back on the drogue. The
end that had whipped over the top of the fuselage was already playing havoc
with turbine blades on the starboard side, so the lucky part was the drogue was
tugged in two directions and tore apart, with the break happening on the
starboard side. Only six meters of drogue was ingested by the starboard engine,
snapping off or bending less than twenty percent of those turbine blades.

That Condor began dropping, unable to maintain
altitude on one damaged engine.

 

“What the-” I shut up because answering
questions from me would distract the pilots from what they needed to be doing:
flying the aircraft. There was one being who boasted a near-infinite capacity
to multi-task, so I called that asshole beer can. “Skippy, what is-”

Instead of the familiar arrogant tone of Skippy
the Not-Quite-as-Awesome-As-He-Thinks-He-Is, there was a scratchy recording of
a bland female voice. “Your call is important to us. Please hold and we will
answer your call in the order it was received. Thank you for your patience.”

I stared at my zPhone in disbelief. “What the F-

Skippy
! Answer me right now, dammit!”

“Busy, Joe. Super-
duper
 busy.” He actually sounded distracted.

“You are never too busy to bug the shit out of
me when 
you
 want to talk. Sing it if
you want to, but I need a SITREP right now.”

“Sing it? Oooooh, that is a 
great
-”

“No, it is a

terrible
 idea. What the hell is going on?”

“Oh for- 
UGH
.

Fine
. It is a fluid situation, Joe,
more data is coming in every nanosecond. If you can wait a-”

“Bad news is not like wine, it does not get
better with age.”

“That is a good point. Ok, Lieutenant Reed’s
Condor has suffered the loss of one engine, and the other is badly damaged. It
is losing altitude.”

 

It took twenty minutes before we had enough info
to fully understand the situation, and for Lt. Reed to get enough control of
her ship that she could talk to us. “Engine Two is gone. It shredded and tore
lose, damaged the tail cone as it went. There is damage to the portside hull,
we’ve lost sensors to see how bad it is, we can tell parts of the outer skin
are peeling away.” She took a pause for breath, and when she spoke, her voice
was dead calm, relaying purely the facts with no hint of her inner emotions. “Engine
One is running at forty percent power, we tried higher power settings, but the vibration
caused the engine controller to throttle back.”

“Understood, Fireball,” I used her callsign,
unaware that she was not fond of that pilot nickname. “We show you descending
at two hundred meters per second, can you confirm?” It was a stupid question
but I had to confirm the datalink was accurate.

“Confirmed,” this time there was a catch in her
voice. “We can’t lighten load, there’s nothing to dump overboard. As we get deeper
in the atmosphere, I will need to reduce airspeed to reduce stress on the hull.
That will increase our sink rate.”

“Under, uh, stood.” Shit, that time my voice
nearly cracked.

 “Colonel?”
She asked.

“Yes?”

“This would be a 
really
 good time for a monkey-brained idea.”

 

Lieutenant Samantha ‘Sami’ Reed was spot-on that
only a crazy idea could rescue her ship and crew. Her Condor was sinking so
fast, there was no time for a rescue attempt from the 
Dutchman
, we needed to do it with our ship and what we had on
board. I asked Porter, our lead pilot, for ideas and he and his team came up
with a couple off-the-wall suggestions that were not quite crazy enough to
work. We could not attach a line to the stricken ship and winch the crew across
the gap. We could not clamp onto the other Condor with ours, the landing skids
had no way to attach to the smooth hull of another dropship. Porter then got
excited when he remembered an incident during the Korean war, and another
during Vietnam, when one fighter jet pushed a damaged fighter that had lost
power. In Korea, the pilot stuck his fighter’s nose cone up the crippled jet’s
tailpipe and pushed it beyond enemy territory, in Vietnam the pilot used the
windshield of his Phantom jet to push against the tailhook of another Phantom.

Those ideas were not practical for our
situation, but they did get me thinking. First, Porter made me realize that
plenty of humans got wild-ass ideas when they were needed, and it was time for
me to stop screwing around and step up my game. Second, he reminded me that
dropships had something like a tailhook, they all were equipped with some kind
of mechanism that could catch on netting in a docking bay for emergency
recovery. Sometimes in combat, a dropship needed to be taken aboard quickly and
there was no time for gentle and precise flying. Instead, the dropship aimed at
the open docking bay and flew in, trusting suspensor fields to slow it down and
catch it. In my pilot training, I had practiced that maneuver a dozen times, it
was nerve-wracking to fly toward an open docking bay, seeing the back wall approaching
way too fast and hoping the mysterious invisible technology of suspensor fields
will work correctly.

Because it would be foolish to rely on one
system to prevent a crash, suspensor fields aboard a Thuranin ship had a
backup; netting stretched across the open bay door. This netting was a tough
and smart nanofiber that sensed the nose of an incoming dropship and created an
opening so the nose didn’t crumple on impact. The rest of the netting caught
the wings, engine nacelles and most important, the hooks. Just behind the
engines were hooks, either four or six of them depending on the model of
dropship. These hooks deployed in a star pattern to catch the netting and bring
the dropship to a halt before it damaged the mothership. A ‘crash-landing’ as
we called it was something we only practiced in the simulator for a very good
reason: the crash-landing maneuver was rough on biological beings like humans.
Supposedly, a properly strapped-in crew of a dropship would survive a
crash-landing, but it wasn’t something we wanted people to experience unless
they absolutely had to.

The reason I mentioned emergency docking procedures
was not for suspensor fields or nanofiber crash netting, it was for the hooks.
Even one of those hooks could stop the mass of a dropship traveling up to thirty
meters per second, that was a seriously strong hook. The strength of those
hooks is why I traded my flightsuit for a hardshell Kristang powered armor
suit.

“Joe, are you sure about this?”

“Skippy,” I gave a somewhat shaky thumbs up sign
to the pilots helping me prep the suit. “If I was sure about doing this, I
wouldn’t have asked you to recheck your numbers a half-dozen times. Were you
wrong?”

“No, but that is not the point. My calculations
confirmed the arrestor hooks of your ship are strong enough, that the cables
you are using are strong enough, and that the nose landing gear of the other
Condor is strong enough. If you can get a cable attached from your hooks to the
other ship’s nose gear, you will be able to tow it up into orbit. Probably.
Unless you run into bad turbulence. Or the pilots lack the skill to-”

“The pilots are going to do just fine, Skippy.”

“We’ll see about that, since none of the pilots
have done this before, trained for it, or even thought about it. If Captain
Porter in the lead ship, or Lieutenant Reed in the trailing ship, are not able
to fly 
very
 smoothly, their actions
could set up a vibration in the cable that could-”

“You told me this superduper high-tech cable is
smart, it has some sort of self-correcting thingy that can help steer it and
dampen vibrations.”

“Yes, 
Ugh
,”
he gave an exasperated sigh. “The cable can make adjustments to a certain
point. After that, it gets dicey. Anyway, you are missing the point as usual. I
am not worried about the equipment or the pilots’ skill. I am worried about
 you
, dumdum!”

“Skippy,” I waved to the pilots and closed the
airlock door behind me, “thank you. It’s nice to know that you care-”

“Oh. I meant I am worried you will screw this up
and get a bunch of people killed, but let’s go with the caring thing if you
like.”

“
Why

are you such an asshole?”

“Hey! I wouldn’t have to worry at all if you
weren’t such a dumb monkey. This is all your fault anyway.”

“
Me
?”
The airlock finished cycling and I opened the outer door into the back ramp
area of the Condor, hooking a safety line onto my belt. “
You
 designed and built that crappy fuel drogue.”

“And 
you

are a trouble magnet. This is the first time you’ve been on a refueling
mission, 
and
 the first time we have
had a problem. Coincidence? I don’t think so. Totally your fault. We should
never have-Oh, dammit Joe.” His voice broke and he was blubbering. “If
something bad happens to you, I don’t, I don’t know what I will do.”

“Jeez, Skippy,” now I was finding it hard to
talk. “I would miss you too. It’s good to-”

“I mean, I 
do

know what I will do; I’ll train another monkey to replace you. But, damn what a
pain in the 
ass
 that will be.”

“Skippy?” I shook my head ruefully. “Can you
save your heartwarming motivational talk for after I’m aboard the 
Dutchman
? I’m going to be kinda busy.”

 

I was flying feet-first behind the lead Condor, being
literally jerked around at the end of a cable that was attached to my legs.
Because I needed to see and grab hold of the nose gear of the trailing ship, I
had to be facing backwards. The only way I could steer was with my arms, it was
like skydiving backwards. To make the experience extra superduper fun and easy
for everyone, Reed’s Condor was now sinking at three hundred meters per minute
and that rate was accelerating. At the controls of our ship, Porter had to
match Reed’s sink rate. He also had to fly above her altitude, with my weight
making the cable droop down. Porter also had to adjust to turbulence and try to
think how an up or down draft would affect the trailing ship. For her part,
Reed could not simply watch the lead ship and adjust, she had to anticipate
Porter’s moves.

All I had to do was get whipped around on the
end of a cable, find Reed’s Condor, bang into it without killing myself and
loop the cable around the front landing gear.

If you want to visualize what I was doing, rent
one of the ‘Airport’ disaster movies, I think it was ‘Airport 75’ or maybe
‘Airport 78’. Whatever. It’s the one with the actor who played Jesus in an old
movie. No, that’s not right, maybe he played John the Baptist. I know it wasn’t
John the Methodist or John the Presbyterian. Wait, I got it! He played Moses. I
remember that because we were living in Boston when that movie came on TV, and
during the scene when Moses parts the Red Sea, my father said that if Moses
wanted a real challenge, he could try parting Boston traffic during rush hour.

Anyway, in that ‘Airport’ movie, the actor needs
to go from an airplane into a big jetliner to fly it, because the pilots of the
jetliner are dead. He is dangling on the end of a cable and he somehow has to
fit through a broken windshield, he gets his legs in and the flight attendants
pull him into the cockpit.

My point is, that guy had it easy. It was a
clear day so he could see what he was doing, whereas I was flying through
clouds of hydrogen sulfide and other nasty toxic stuff, and I couldn’t see a
damned thing without the synthetic vision provided by my suit sensors. He had
help while I was by myself. Also, the aircraft I was trying to hook onto wasn’t
flying nice and level on autopilot, it was sinking at an increasing rate. The
force of gravity on me was seventeen percent greater than on Earth, and the
lower we dropped, the greater the effect of gravity would be. Ok, yes, you
there Mr. Nerdface in the back with your hand up because you are 
so
 smart, I know that before the gravity
becomes a big problem we would have fallen so deep the atmospheric pressure
would crush the Condor, but the extra gravity was already making it more
difficult for me to judge my aim. Imagine you are shooting free throws in
gravity that is seventeen percent higher than normal. You have probably shot
thousands of free throws in normal gravity, and your eye-hand coordination,
your reflexes and your muscle memory are all set up for normal gravity.
Suddenly, you have to put a bit more effort into shooting the ball, and the arc
it follows is steeper than you expect. It was like that as I awkwardly tried to
steer myself at the end of the cable.

My first attempt to contact the target was
almost a disaster, I came in from the right, overcorrected and was about to
smack into the hull hard enough to dent it and kill me. Fortunately for me, the
crew aboard the lead Condor recognized the danger and reeled in the cable
enough for me to zip past the nose so fast it was a blur. “Sorry!” I called out
as I tried to swing back to the center.

“No problem, Colonel,” Reed assured me. “Take
your time out there.”

“Thanks, I-”

“Not 
too

much time, Sir.”

“Affirmative.” After my near-disaster, we kept
the cable short enough that I couldn’t hit anything, and I concentrated on
keeping myself centered. The twelfth attempt was going well enough for me to
call for more cable. I was below and in front of the target and we had gotten
lucky with the turbulence. The air was smooth, I had gotten better at free-flying
on the end of the cable. We tried letting out the cable so I could slip under
the Condor’s nose, it was tricky because the air pattern close to the ship was
different and it pushed me away. “Ok, I know how to do it now,” I advised after
the crew retracted the cable again. For the first time since I stumbled out the
back ramp of my Condor, I was confident this crazy scheme might actually work.
Until then, truthfully, I had launched this rescue operation more because I
felt we had to do something than expecting we could save the crew of that
crippled ship. “Next time, let the cable out-”

The trailing Condor dropped like a rock in front
of me, sinking so quickly it was now below me. “Reed? What happened? Reed?”

“Joe,” Skippy’s voice broke in. “Lieutenant Reed
is extremely busy, she just lost three more fan blades and vibration in the
turbine was so bad, she had to reduce throttle to twelve percent. No, now she
has gone to seven percent.”

“Seven? Shit, that’s practically idling.” Reed’s
Condor had sunk almost below range of my suit’s sensors and my synthetic vision
switched over to a feed from the lead ship. “Porter! Follow her, we can’t lose
her.”

“Colonel, this is problematic,” Porter responded
and I could feel myself dropping faster. “The target is now falling at nineteen
hundred meters per minute. The air resistance on you prevents you from falling
that fast.”

Shit. He was right, I hadn’t thought of that. At
the end of the cable, I was now above the lead Condor, as it was sinking faster
than I was. “Screw this,” I muttered to myself. I had been flying in a
belly-down position, now I tucked into a head-down posture. My speed picking up
rapidly and soon I was at the level of the lead ship, then dropping below
again. “More cable,” I ordered.”

“Joe, while this is a heroic action, it-”

“Nothing heroic about it, Skippy. I can always
get reeled back in and fly safely up to the Dutchman.”

“My point, dumdum, is that the only way you can
fall quickly enough to catch Reed’s ship is to fly in head-down position. In
that position, you can’t fly under her ship and contact the landing gear.”

Shit. Double shit! He was right. I hadn’t
thought of that either. Damn, I was a total freakin’ moron, what the hell was
wrong with me? Why couldn’t I think ahead and- “Reed! Fireball!”

“Here, Colonel. The turbine is tearing itself
apart, I can’t-”

“I know. Invert! Fly upside down!”

There was the slightest hesitation, then a
surprised “Sir?”

“I’m coming in above you and I can’t get to the
landing gear from here. So, flip over.”

“Oh. Got it. This thing won’t fall any faster
upside down.”

She did it. “Porter, I need-”

“Doing it now, Colonel,” he answered before I
could finish because he had excellent situational awareness and knew what I
planned to do. “Sink rate is now twenty three hundred meters per minute.”

Crap. In the thick air, I had trouble plummeting
that fast, even tucked in a head-down position. The belly of the upside-down
Condor approached with agonizing slowness while I fretted I was too late. Then
it loomed in front of me and I had to frantically roll upright onto my belly
and spread my arms to slow down. In my third consecutive dumbass move, I had
failed to consider the falling Condor would create a pocket of air above it.
When I fell into that shadow, I dropped like a rock. Nothing I could do could slow
me down quickly enough, I belly-flopped onto the Condor’s belly and hit hard,
my suit absorbing much of the shock with airbags inflating inside to keep me
from being knocked unconscious. “I’m Ok, I’m Ok,” I wheezed, out of breath. The
rebound had me hitting again and I was sliding down over the side, flailing my
arms and legs to stop my fall.

Listen, Ok, yes, it was pure luck that one of my
arms wrapped around the landing gear. I hadn’t even seen the thing. But when
the cable end automatically looped several times around the gear and the
nanofibers basically welded the cable securely in place, there was a triumphant
whoop from the lead ship’s crew. Followed by grateful and excited shouting from
Reed and her crew.

“You did it! Colonel! You did it! Thank you
thank you thank you!” Reed gushed.

Hey, no way could I tell anyone it was an
accident that I accomplished the mission, right? “No problem, Reed, any time.
Porter, you got her?”

“Cable is secure, Colonel, but now we have
another problem. The computer is telling me that to tow the other ship, I need
an airspeed that will overstress the cable and cause it to snap.”

Breaking my dumbass pattern, I had an answer to
that dilemma. “Forget airspeed, Porter. Both the Condors are empty. Your
thrust-to-weight ratio is plenty for a pure vertical ascent, even carrying
another ship. Reduce your airspeed and lift us straight up. When we clear the
atmosphere, you can flatten our course and build up speed to get us into a
stable orbit.”

“Sir? That’s not-”

Skippy broke in again. “Captain Porter, Joe is
correct. The Pilot’s Operating Handbook for the Condor will tell you that
maneuver is impossible, because the Thuranin who programed the flight control
system never considered a wild-ass stunt like this. But it 
can
 be done, I just uploaded new software into your computer.”

“Huh,” was all Porter said in response.

“Apparently, the Thuranin who designed that
dropship never met an ignorant monkey, hee hee,” Skippy chuckled.

“Colonel, I am ashamed I didn’t think of that,”
Porter apologized.

“Don’t be,” I replied as I felt the Condor I was
attached to slowing, with the cable going taught. Our rate of descent was being
cancelled. “When I started flight training, Major Desai told me my best asset
was my total lack of experience, I had no ingrained habits to unlearn. You
naturally think of lift in terms of airspeed.”

“Yes, Sir,” Porter agreed. “But I won’t do 
that
 again. Rate of descent is now zero,
commencing climb.”

With Reed’s Condor dangling from its nose on the
end of a cable, she had to use thrusters to stop us from spinning like a top.
We were climbing, and at first all was going according to plan. Then, as our
rate of climb increased, I started getting bashed against the hull. It was
getting rough. “Hey, Porter, I appreciate the enthusiasm, but slow down, I’m
getting tenderized here.”

“Colonel, we don’t have the fuel for that. If I
go any slower, we won’t make orbit. I can’t fly vertically all the way up,” he
announced.

“Shit,” I grunted from a particularly hard rap
against the Condor’s belly. “This is a problem.”

“Joe,” Skippy’s voice sounded worried. “Captain
Porter is correct; the fuel state is growing critical. Climbing at such a steep
angle is consuming fuel rapidly.”

“If we don’t slow down,” I bashed my helmet
again, and was seeing stars in my vision. “I’m going to be in very big trouble
out here.”

“Joe,” Skippy scolded me. “I am very
disappointed in you. You rescued Lieutenant Reed’s crew, but now your life is
in danger because of a little breeze?”

“It is not a 
little

breeze, Skippy.

Reed made a suggestion. “If I open a side door,
could you get to it?”

“No way,” I reported unhappily. “It is too far-”

“Sir?” She asked after I was silent for a long
moment.

“Give me a minute here, I’m thinking. Uh, hey!
Open your main landing gear doors, Reed.”

“Good idea, Sir,” she agreed with enthusiasm.

It was not easy getting to one of the main
landing gear, because the airstream wanted to keep me in the center of the
Condor’s belly, but Reed helped by skillfully and gently tilting her Condor by
using thrusters, keeping a watchful eye she did not overstress the cable. With
her help, I slid back and grabbed onto one of the sturdy main landing gear,
then tucked myself into the bay where the gear normally rested in flight. “I’m
in. Let’s be clear about something, Fireball. Do 
NOT
 retract this landing gear, understood?”

 

With me mostly protected from the screeching
airstream, we climbed out of the atmosphere and into a low orbit. Once there,
the crew and I transferred to Porter’s ship, and I made a quick decision to
discard the damaged Condor. We could have tried bringing the 
Dutchman
 down to rendezvous with us, but
at low altitude she could not jump away in case we got ambushed, and the
crippled ship would have struggled to get into a docking bay on thrusters
alone. So, we remotely fired nose thrusters to slow it down, and by the time we
were safely aboard our fine ship, the broken Condor was burning up in the thick
atmosphere.

The fuel collection op ended with the 
Dutchman
’s tanks only sixty-three
percent full and that worried me, but it was enough to get us to Earth with a
comfortable reserve. So, we considered ourselves lucky to escape without loss
of life, and jumped away to our next dangerous adventure.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY NINE
Our jump into the Paradise system was
interesting, and by ‘interesting’ I mean ‘
batshit

crazy
’. Once we got deep into the
star system, Skippy could retake control of the Ruhar sensor network and
conceal our presence from the hamster fleet, but we couldn’t prevent them from
detecting the gamma ray burst of our inbound jump, so we had to get creative.

Normally, we would jump in no closer than the
system’s Oort cloud and travel to Paradise the slow way through normal space,
but on this mission we didn’t have time, so we needed to jump directly into the
inner system. We had three pieces of luck going for us. First, after the nice
pleasant habitable planet of Paradise, the next planet outward from the star
was a smallish gas giant. This world is a grayish-blue ball of gas like Neptune
but smaller, and the Ruhar name for it was ‘Notol’. Because there was a big gas
giant farther out in the system, and that gas giant had plenty of moons with
useful raw materials like metals, the Ruhar fleet used the big planet as a
refueling station and they were setting up ship servicing facilities there.
This means Notol was not of much use to the fleet, so they did not have any
facilities there.

The second piece of good luck was at the time we
had to jump in, Notol was just over one month away from its closest approach to
Paradise, while the big gas giant with its refueling station was on the other
side of the star. We could jump in on the far side of Notol and its bulk would
shield our gamma rays from being seen by sensors orbiting Paradise.

Unfortunately, Skippy knew the Ruhar fleet had a
deep-space sensor platform farther out from Notol, which happened to be in position
to get a clear view of our inbound gamma ray burst. Thus, the batshit crazy
stunt we had to use.

Notol has eighteen moons, most of them asteroids
that got captured by the planet’s gravity. Only four of those moons were big
enough for their own gravity to make them spherical, and our third piece of
luck was one of these moons was on the side of Notol toward the deep-space
sensor platform. “Are you sure about this, Skippy?” I asked while my hands dug
into the armrests of the command chair. “You checked your math twice, three
times?”

“I checked the math a billion times, Joe, even
though this math is so simple even you could do it. No, wait, what am I saying?
Nothing is 
that
 simple. Anywho, I got
this Joe. Trust. The. Awesomeness.”

“Has this particular type of awesomeness ever
been done before?”

“Ever? Yes, it is not superduper uncommon, but
this is the first time it has ever been attempted by a star carrier that I know
of.”

“Two things, Skippy. You using the word
‘attempted’ is not making me overflow with confidence. And technically, our
rebuilt Frankenship is no longer a star carrier.”

“Oof, Ok, Mr. Smartypants. If you want to have a
technicality throwdown with me, it is 
on
,
homeboy. I used the word ‘attempted’ to be totally open and accurate with you,
because no ship like this has ever performed this exact maneuver, so we won’t
know if it can be done until we try it, you big jerkface. Also, although the 
Flying Dutchman
 does not look like a
star carrier, with the shortened spine and lack of docking hardpoints, the
structure and frame are still very much that of a star carrier. Compared to a
real warship, the 
Dutchman
 is spindly
and flimsy, so the-”

“
This

is you making me overflow with confidence?” I asked with a nervous glance at
the jump countdown timer.

“Um, maybe I should have said ‘strong and
robust’ instead of ‘spindly and flimsy’?”

“Yeah! See, that’s how you-”

“Although me saying that would have been 
total 
bullshit,” he chuckled.
“Considering the frayed layers of used duct tape holding this ship together,
‘flimsy’ is being generous. Too late for second thoughts now, Joe. Jump in two,
one, holdmybeer.”

 

Maybe jumping anywhere in our Frankenship was
crazy, but the truly batshit part was 
where

we jumped. You have to understand, two of Notol’s moons were big enough to have
thin atmospheres, including the moon we used as cover. The jump Skippy plotted
had us emerging 
inside
 the upper
layer of the moon’s atmosphere, on the side of the moon facing the planet. The
bulk of the planet shielded our gamma ray burst from being seen on Paradise, and
the moon concealed us from the deep-space sensors. The complication was that
deep-space sensor platform would have detected gamma rays being reflected off
the atmosphere of the planet, which is why we pulled the crazy stunt of coming
out of a jump wormhole so close to the moon I could have leaned out an airlock
and touched the damned thing.

“Skippy!” I grunted from being flung forward
against the straps as the very un-aerodynamic 
Flying Dutchman
 bored a hole through the thin clouds of nitrogen
and sulphur dioxide. Before we jumped, we had accelerated the ship to beyond
the escape velocity of the moon, so even if our engines failed, we could coast
through the thin upper atmosphere and safely away from the rocky surface.
Emerging into the air, the ship’s forward hull slammed into it like a brick
wall. Star carriers were not designed to operate in the gravity well of a star
system, and they sure as hell were never intended to fly like a gosh-darned
dropship. Skippy had the forward defense shields on full power and still there
were parts flaking and peeling off the front part of the ship. My original
thought was to have the ship come out of the jump flying backwards since jump
physics didn’t care about the ship’s orientation in relation to the event horizon,
but Skippy convinced me most of the critical systems aboard the ship were in
the aft section. If we sustained significant damage to the forward hull, that
might make living aboard the ship uncomfortable for meatsacks but we could
still generate power, fly and jump. If the aft section were damaged, it might
be adios muchachos for all of us.

“
Whoooo-hooo
!
Ride ‘em cowboy!” The beer can whooped excitedly. “Yee-ha!”

“Sir, we’ve lost several of the portside nose
thrusters!” Desai warned. “She’s turning and we can’t stop the yaw.”

“If she turns sideways to the air stream-”
Porter added from the copilot couch.

“Yeah, yeah, don’t get so excited,” Skippy
huffed. “Adjusting shields to compensate. We’re good, the revised shield
configuration is reversing the yaw. Yup, no problem. Oh dammit, there go two of
the belly nose thrusters. I mean, there they 
go
,” he announced as we all felt a bump, “we just kinda lost a
section of hull plating. Oh, what the hell, we’re almost out of the atmosphere
now.”

It was a white-knuckle thirty seconds before
Desai reported aerodynamic drag was essentially zero. “We made it, Sir,” there
was a slight flutter to her voice. “Commencing first course correction.”

I saw her share a private thumbs up with Porter,
as they turned the ship to skim the rim of the gas giant planet. Skim, not
touch. To gain speed and get the ship turned on course toward Gingerbread, we
had to slingshot around Notol, using its gravity well to gain free velocity.

“Stealth field status?” I asked to anyone who
had that data.

“It’s fine, Joe,” Skippy answered peevishly.
“Jeez Louise, that info is right on the main display.”

“No, Your Supreme Assholeness, the main display
shows the status of the stealth field generators, and the density and shape of
the field surrounding the ship. It does not, as 
you
 reminded me more than once, indicate how effective our stealth
capability is. The ship could be trailing a stream of ionized particles from
our passage through the atmosphere, which would point straight toward the ship
like a giant neon arrow.”

“Ugh,” Skippy was supremely disgusted. “This is
what I get for trying to explain technology to a monkey. Yes, fine, Mr.
Nerdface, you are correct. How the hell did you get so smart?”

I didn’t mention that Dr. Friedlander had warned
me about the possibility of an ion trail after we came out of the atmosphere.
“Answer the question, please.”

“Ok, 
fine
.
No, we are not trailing a line of ionized gas. We 
would
 be, but I adjusted the shield frequency to de-ionize the gas
particles as we passed through, as yet another sterling example of my
awesomeness. Our stealth is effective, more effective than any other ship in
this backwater star system, that’s for sure. Eventually, Ruhar sensors will
detect an anomalous disturbance in the moon’s atmosphere but they will
attribute it to volcanic activity, then they will forget about it because
nobody cares. Are you happy now?”

“Happy enough. Is the first package of missiles
ready?”

“All tubes loaded and ready,” Major Simms
reported from the CIC.

“Launch and reload. Then keep going. We need a
lot of birds in flight for this op.”

 

Our plan relied on a lot of missiles, but that
was Ok because we had plenty aboard. We had so many missiles there wasn’t
enough space in the ship’s magazines to store them, so we moved stuff around to
empty out cargo bays and stuff missiles in there. Yes, if the ship took a hit
to one of those poorly-protected cargo bays, the ship would go ‘Boom’ in a big
way, but we’d be screwed if we took a direct hit anywhere so as Skippy said
cheerily, there really was no downside.

Our surplus of missiles came from the junkyard
of shattered ships floating around the Roach Motel. Yes, all these missiles
were obsolete and they didn’t all come with fancy options like functional
warheads, sensors and guidance systems, but we didn’t always need those. Skippy
had been able to cobble together a Frankenstein assortment of parts to create
sensors and guidance systems, and for our initial mission in the Paradise
system, we did not need warheads. The first volleys of missiles did not need
warheads, they only needed speed and stealth, for where their explosive charges
used to be, they each carried one end of a microwormhole.

The purpose of that first cluster of missiles
was to provide remote sensors, far from the ship. We knew roughly where the
Kristang ship was likely to be, or Skippy had the three most likely locations
calculated, but we could not get the 
Dutchman

there fast enough without violating stealth, and we needed to know 
exactly
 where that damned ship was. Our
missiles could get the microwormholes in position far more quickly than the
ship could have, but they still took a long time to fly to the target area, and
then Skippy the Once-Again-Magnificent would have to slowly and painstakingly
begin the process of passively scanning a still-huge region of space for one
small and stealthy ship.

 

While our cloud of missiles flew onward, we had
a movie night in the galley. Before the movie, we were showing and mostly
laughing at photos people took during our time on Gingerbread. Our time there
now seemed to be an idyllic year-long vacation in our rose-colored nostalgia
glasses, because we had escaped from the Roach Motel and were hopefully going
home soon. Everything was going great until Skippy began inserting random
images that were definitely not from Gingerbread.

Like the photo from Major Simms’ military ID
card.

“No! Don’t!” Simms implored me but the image was
already there on the screen. “It’s a horrible photo of-Oh, crap.”

It was a bad picture of her, a terrible picture,
but come on, nobody likes the way they look on a driver’s license or ID card.
It looked like the photo was taken with a fisheye lens, it made Simms’ face
look too big and round and her forehead too high. I tried to keep a straight
face, unfortunately, Lauren Poole in the back of the galley slapped the table,
unable to control herself. “You look like a 
potato

with a hairpiece.”

OMG I never laughed so hard in my life, and
Gunny Adams had trouble catching her breath. Simms’ face turned bright red
before she also joined in the laughter. People had tears running down their
cheeks and one of the British team fell off his chair. When I was able to talk
again, I tried to make up for the insult to our logistics officer. Into my
zPhone, I whispered “Skippy, pull up the photo from my driver’s license.”

Damn, that picture was awful. I had to sneeze
just as the grumpy witch at the DMV took the photo, and she refused to give me
a do-over. So my mouth is gaping open, my nose is wrinkled and my eyes are half-closed.
I hated that stupid photo that followed me around the world and now to the
stars. Although, this made me smile while the crowd had a good laugh at my
expense, seeing the license photo reminded me that my Maine driver’s license
had expired by now. If we ever got back to Earth, I would need to renew my
license and get a new photo! That would be my chance to-Oh, crap, that wasn’t
going to work. No matter how careful I was to not look like an idiot when the
DMV took my photo, a certain asshole beer can would hack into the system and
alter the image. I’d be lucky if I didn’t look like a brain-damaged chimpanzee.

 

“Hey, Your Magnificence, any luck yet?” I asked
while stifling a yawn. It was going to be a long night, and a long couple days,
even if we did get super lucky.

“What? No, you moron, the first six
microwormholes just got into position. I haven’t even had time to adjust the
sensors for local background solar particle density and radiation levels.”

“Ok, sorry, Skip, you know us monkeys can get-”

“Although, hmm, 
something
 out there is leaking radioactive plasma. Yup! Bingo! We
have a Kristang ship, it passed through recently, based on decay of the plasma.
Unfortunately, the microwormhole that detected the particle trail flew through the
trail side to side, so I can’t use that microwormhole to track the ship. Oh,
well, I can use it to passively scan for medium-range sensor data, and to
coordinate the whole squadron. In fact, hmm, we are in a bit of luck. The
particle density of the trail the ship is leaving behind is so thick, I can use
a pair of missiles to track it, without releasing their microwormhole kernels
from containment. Bonus, dude.”

What Skippy meant was when microwormholes were
being carried by missiles at high acceleration, that wormhole was only a
kernel, a seed of the wormhole Skippy would open. The near end was in one of
our cargo bays, with the far end encased in a magnetic force field inside the
missile’s forward shroud. So long as that magnetic field held the kernel within
its boundaries, the missile could maneuver almost at combat acceleration, and
the microwormhole would remain intact and ready for use. But to activate the
microwormhole, it needed to be released from containment, expelled from the
missile’s shroud, and expanded. At that point, the missile was discarded and
the microwormhole could be moved only very slowly and gently. Skippy could use
the wormhole as a real-time sensor platform, with no annoyingly slow
speed-of-light lag back to the ship. He could send signals though the tiny
wormholes, and as we demonstrated in the skies above Newark, we could shoot a
maser beam through it, although transmitting that much power through the
spacetime wrinkle caused the wormhole to collapse.

Our missiles were mostly Thuranin gear, with a
few from the Jeraptha and even three from the wreckage of a Rindhalu starship.
If you got excited about us getting access to Rindhalu tech, then prepare to be
bitterly disappointed, because those three spider missiles were over eight
hundred thousand years old, and were obsolete junk even compared to the
obsolete Thuranin weapons we recovered from the Roach Motel junkyard. Anyway,
it didn’t matter much what type of missile we used, because all we needed were
their propulsion modules and stealth fields. The motors were pretty much
original in most cases, with Skippy performing only minor tweaks, but he
seriously upgraded their stealth capability so they were ready for the delicate
task they needed to perform.

“The ship is where you expected it to be?” I was
puzzled while watching the main bridge display. The pair of missiles Skippy had
sent weaving back and forth to follow the particle trail left by the unseen
ship, were now headed away from the cluster of meteors where we thought the
ship would be hiding. He had another pair of missiles flying in the opposite
direction, flying a wider pattern. The worst part was, the 
Flying Dutchman
 was close to the meteor cluster, and out of
position to intercept the enemy ship.

“Uh, no,” the beer can admitted. “That is odd,
but not entirely outside the scope of my expectations.”

“What?” I jabbed a finger at the display. “The
particle trail is nowhere close to that meteor shower, and those missiles are
getting farther away every second.”

“Yes, Joe, 
duh
.
The particle trail goes in two directions, I have the first pair of missiles
flying toward where the trail is denser and the decay of radioactive elements
indicates the particles were expelled from the ship more recently. That end of
the trail leads to the ship. The other end tells me where the ship flew in the
past, and by data from the other two missiles, I know the ship’s course came
within twenty thousand kilometers of the meteor shower. The ship would have
avoided the cluster of meteors because its passage through such a dense cloud
of rocks would have compromised the ship’s stealth.”

“Oh, crap,” I groaned as Chang expressed the
same sentiment in the CIC. “The Keepers have already been deployed in
aeroshells? Damn it, no way can we capture them now, they’ll be spread out all
over the freakin’ sky!”

“Don’t be so hasty, Joe,” Skippy’s voice was a
soothing tone he rarely used. “Yes, it does not make sense for the Kristang to
fly close to the meteor cluster more than once, but there are other
possibilities to consider. First, there may be more than one enemy ship
involved.”

“What? You told us-”

“I told you what the data indicated. If that
data was incomplete, or the Kristang changed their plans, I would not know
about that, would I?” He huffed, annoyed at me. “This is supposed to be a
secret operation by the Kristang, it’s not like I was able to get details on
their evening news feed, you know?”

“Sorry, Skippy.”

“Joe, the proper time to be sorry is when you
get out of bed in the morning and realize you are still an ignorant monkey, not

after
 you say something stupid to
piss me off. Nonetheless, as I am humbly generous with my awesomeness, your
apology is accepted. Getting back to the subject after you so rudely
interrupted me, it is possible the ship whose trail I detected is flying recon,
to scout ahead for a ship carrying the Keepers. I have other missiles scanning
for a second ship now. However, I think it is much more likely there is only a
single ship involved, and that it sent out one or more dropships as it
approached the meteor cluster. That scenario makes much more sense than the
idea of the Kristang devoting more than one ship to this operation. Having more
ships involved increases the expense, and increases the odds of the Ruhar
detecting the Kristang presence in the Paradise system. Also, properly
deploying the aeroshells requires the Keepers to already be inside the meteor
cluster when they are sent out, and as I stated, maneuvering a starship inside
such a high-density cluster of rocks is tricky. Using dropships makes much more
sense.”

“Ok,” I exchanged a thumbs up with Chang. “I
wish you had told us that before, but, whatever. Can you scan the meteor
cluster for dropships?”

“Doing that now, Joe. Please understand that is
a large area generously sprinkled with dust and rocks and other crap, so it is
not easy to find one or two stealthed dropships in there. Kristang dropships do
not use fusion reactors for power, so there is not a nice trail of elements
made radioactive by high-energy neutron activation, such as the molten lithium
the Kristang typically use as a coolant medium on their smaller ships.”

“Oh, yeah, of course. That’s what I was going to
say, or, you know, some other nerdy shit like that.”

“Nerdy? Joe, I, 
ugh
. Oof, I can’t even-Oh, forget it. You should think of
reactor-powered starships as leaving a trail of sparkly magic fairy dust behind
them.”

Since my understanding of fusion power was sadly
lacking, I dropped the subject. “If it is so superduper difficult, how do you
plan to find any dropships in there?”

“Working on it, Joe, working on it. You could
help tremendously by shutting your pie hole for a moment and let the adults
handle this. The first pair of missiles is now picking up trace amounts of samarium
cobalt that has been embrittled by heavy neutron bombardment, which makes me
certain of two things. First, samarium cobalt is used in secondary magnetic
plasma containment systems aboard older Kristang ships, so the particle trail
is absolutely from a small lizard warship such as a frigate or destroyer. Any
larger capital ship would have had its containment system overhauled and
upgraded by now. Second, the missiles are getting close enough to the target
ship that I can now release one of the microwormholes for scanning. I’m going
to be busy, so kindly shut up for a minute.”

 

When Skippy said ‘close’ and then ‘for a
minute’, I expected he would nail the location of the enemy ship quickly, like
within ten minutes. Instead, it took forty seven minutes, during which time I
sat quietly but growing more stressed with every second that passed. Finally,
when I was about to go crazy from waiting and doing nothing, the beer can
spoke. “Got it! That ship is an old 
Morta
-class
destroyer, when I say old I mean the last 
Morta
-class
left the shipyard over five hundred years ago. Damn, no wonder it is leaving a
trail of radioactive particles behind like breadcrumbs. Wait, wait, give me
another moment and I will have that ship positively identified. Bingo! It is
the ‘
Final Crushing Blow to the Enemy’s
Spirit’
. We can probably call it the ‘
Spirit
’
for short.”

“Great.”

“You said ‘great’ but your tone was not as
thrilled as it should be, Joe,” Skippy sniffed, no doubt miffed that I missed
the opportunity to once again praise his magnificent awesomeness.

“I would be more thrilled if we could simply put
a missile up that ship’s ass and then jump out of here. Without knowing if the
Keepers are still aboard, we can’t take any action against that ship, damn it!”

“It is a frustrating dilemma for sure, Joe.”

“Do you have any suggestions? Even if we are
able to locate dropships in that meteor cloud, we can’t hit them either until
we know whether they have deployed the Keepers in aeroshells. Crap, this is
getting way too complicated. I would love to notify the Ruhar fleet and let
them handle the problem, but we can’t give away the secret that humans are
flying around in a pirate starship.”

“I do have an idea, Joe. Sit back, relax, and
behold the awesomeness! Or, go get some popcorn or coffee or something, it will
be a while before we get to the awesomeness part.”

 

‘A while’ in Skippy’s estimate meant more than
five freakin’ hours in meatsack time. Ok, sure, what he was doing was a very
delicate operation and we couldn’t rush it without revealing our presence and
spooking the 
Spirit
 into jumping
away. I knew that, I understood that, I also hated it.

The awesome thing he did required two
microwormholes. The first one, released from its carrier missile, provided
sensor data to Skippy so he could guide the other missile. He knew roughly
where the target ship was, but ‘roughly’ was a sphere seventy thousand
kilometers in diameter and that was way too imprecise for his purpose. He was
able to gently steer the microwormhole so the search area was between him and
the star, which allowed him a good view of the light-bending effect of the
enemy stealth field. Once he saw the characteristic ripple distortion of a
poor-quality Kristang stealth field, he was able to map the field and estimate
its coverage and frequency. The field had several weak points, he programmed
the missile to slowly and carefully approach the enemy, tuning the missile’s
stealth field to match that generated by the 
Spirit
. It slid inside the field and would have become lost to us,
except of course Skippy had the kernel of a microwormhole tucked away under
that missile’s shroud, so he still had sensor coverage and perfect control of
the missile. The beer can expertly tucked our missile between two engine
nozzles, where the Kristang’s already crappy proximity sensors were especially
blind.

Then he proceeded with the actual awesome part.
Yes, sneaking a missile up close enough to touch an unsuspecting warship would
be considered super bodaciously awesome by anyone else, but by the standards of
Skippy the Once-Again-And-Even-More-So-Magnificent, doing that was not even a
decent magic trick. No, he had something truly special planned.

The 
Spirit

had been transported from Camp Alpha by a Bosphuraq star carrier, and those
birdbrains do not possess nanovirus technology like the Thuranin. Skippy
thought the Bosphuraq did not even know about the nanovirus used by their
rivals, which was a significant advantage for the little green pinheads. The
target ship was infected by nanovirus, but those tiny machines were so old and
so degraded, most of them had self-destructed to avoid their decayed components
being detected. No way could even Skippy take over the destroyer using a
nanovirus, and because the Kristang isolate their control systems to prevent a
hostile higher-tech species from remotely seizing control, our beer can was
also not able to completely infiltrate the 
Spirit
’s
computers. He 
was
 able to project a
local field through the microwormhole, right against the ship’s hull, and
disable internal sensors in that small area.

He improvised. Our Thuranin missiles came
equipped with a handy-dandy self-repair kit of insect-like bots and a
tightly-packed canister of nanomachines. The bots and nano were intended to
restore mildly damaged missiles to operation, or to keep missiles combat-ready
when they were deployed away from their mother ship for long periods on
blockade duty or other detached assignments. Skippy instructed the bots to
activate, leave their storage bins and each bot took a supply of nanomachines
with them as they leapt across the gap between missile and ship’s hull.

Not even Skippy’s magnificence could allow the
squadron of bots to simply use an airlock to gain access to the interior of the
destroyer, because the Kristang set up their airlocks to at least partly
require manual operation. These bots were tiny, like mosquitos, even working
together they lacked the size and strength to turn a heavy wheel to crank open
an airlock. No problem. Skippy sent the bots scurrying along the hull to a
vulnerability the lizards hadn’t even considered. It was a small thermal
exhaust port, and the bots happily crawled along down the port toward the main
reactor. A third of the way down, they stopped to remove a valve and, presto!
They were inside. Because that valve had to operate regularly whenever the
reactor was pumping out heat, the bots reinstalled the valve behind them under
Skippy’s direction.

Skippy later told me all the amazing things he
had his army of bots do, but a lot of it was blah, blah, blah, nerdy tech-talk
that had my brain spinning and my eyes glazing over. Oh crap. Please do 
NOT
 tell Skippy I said that, he thought
I was listening intently the whole time, while really I was dreaming of making
a sandwich. Hey, I had been on duty in the command chair for a long time and I
was hungry. Besides, I am talking about a supremely delicious sandwich.
Thick-sliced ham, with fresh turkey. Fresh, real turkey, not a thin,
suspiciously round disc of processed ‘turkey food product’ whatever the hell that
is. A slice of cheddar cheese, not too sharp but not so bland it gets lost, you
know? You add a bit of horseradish between slices of ham, some honey mustard
or, ooh! Even better, 
maple
-mustard
on the turkey, with sweet roasted peppers—

Ok, fine. Back to the subject. Where was I? Now
I’m really hungry. I’ll bet you’re hungry now too. Anyway, Skippy’s drafted
army of bots creepily crawled throughout that ship, physically plugging into
one local system after another. I wish he had been able to do that, way back
when we boarded and seized the frigate 
Heavenly
Flower of Glorious Victory
 near Paradise, because our boarding action back
then had been a bloody, desperate, chaotic mess. Unfortunately, we had to take
the 
Flower
 quickly that day. That
frigate only had a short time to jump in, pick up our stolen Ruhar Dodo
dropship and jump away, because a whole lot of Ruhar ships were burning to
intercept the 
Flower
. With the 
Spirit
 lazily drifting along in stealth
and blissful ignorance, Skippy was able to slowly and painstakingly work his
way into every system aboard the ship, until he had absolute control of every
electronic device within the hull.

“Aaaaand, done!” He announced with more
weariness than glee. “Damn, that was tedious. Tee-
DEE
-ous! My bots had to keep ducking out of the way to stay hidden
from Kristang maintenance and security bots. Uh, wow. Seven hours went by since
those bots left the missile? Whoooo, I am tired. Skippy needs a nap. I’ll set
an alarm to wake myself. Ohhhhh,” he yawned, “that was a good nap.”

“You, uh, took like, a half-second nap?”

“Half-second in meatsack time, four hours in
Skippy time.”

“Wait, you really took a nap? I thought you
never slept?” There were things about Skippy that were different after he
killed the worm and rebuilt himself, and I did not yet know everything that had
changed.

“I do not sleep the way monkeys do, what I did
was sort of rearranging my sock drawers, tidying up data storage that got
cluttered while I was concentrating on the bots. It was very refreshing. Also,
I didn’t drool on myself the way you do when you sleep.”

“I don’t-” I gave up, there is no point to
arguing with a beer can. “Whatever. Whoo-hoo,” I gave him an unenthusiastic
verbal slow clap. “We have control of that ship. We still don’t know where
those damned Keepers are.”

“Yes we do, Joe. I dug that data out of the 
Spirit
’s databanks like, an hour ago.”

“An 
hour

ago? Why the hell didn’t you tell me about-”

“Take a chill pill, Joey. The Keepers were, as I
suspected, loaded aboard two dropships that left the ship before it crossed the
path of the meteor shower. The ship has a very rough location of the dropships,
but those craft were allowed to maneuver independently once they got inside the
cluster of meteors. They have maintained strict communications silence and are
using stealth technology that is quite advanced for the Kristang, I suspect the
Bosphuraq loaned some upgrades to them. I have had four missiles performing a
grid search for the dropships and estimate seventy three percent of the target
area has been cleared so far. The schedule calls for the Keepers to be released
in their aeroshells sixteen hours from now. We have-uh! Got one! Just detected
one dropship. That’s got to be one of our targets, unless some other species
just happens to be hiding a stealthed dropship in that cluster of meteors. Give
me a minute.”

 

It was twenty seven minutes, not one, but I didn’t
argue with the beer can.

“Contact!” Skippy exulted. “Got them, right
where I expected! Damn, am I good, or am I good? Scratch that, I am the best,
baby! Who da man? I’m da man!”

“You are unquestionably Da Man, Skippy. Please,
Oh Greatest of Great Ones, graciously tell us what the hell it is you found?”

“Hmm? Oh, yeah, sorry, kind of got wrapped up in
the moment. A pair of stealthed dropships, Joe, tucked inside the cluster of
comet debris that will rain down on southern Lemuria as a meteor shower in
three days. What I do not see are aeroshells, which tells me the Keepers have
not yet deployed. They must still be inside the dropships.”

“Outstanding,” I clapped my hands together
happily. “That makes for an easier targeting solution. Colonel Chang, lock two
missiles on-”

“Whoa! Whoa there, Joe. What are you doing?”
Skippy interrupted.

“I’m going to blow those idiot Keepers to hell,
Skippy, and end the threat to Paradise. Why the hell else do you think we were
looking for them? Oh, shit,” I slapped my forehead. “Unless hitting them with a
missile right now will cause their infected body parts to rain down all over
Paradise?” Damn it, I am a moron. That is a question I should have asked Skippy
way before we located those dropships.

“No, Joe, our missile warheads are sufficiently
powerful to turn the contents of those dropships into subatomic particles,
although we will need to coordinate their detonation to within a nanosecond of
each other. The reason I stopped you is we should not just do the simple dumb
guy thing and blow shit up.”

“I 
like

blowing shit up, Skippy. Especially in situations like this. These Keeper losers
are just 
begging
 to get blown up.”

“Although karma and the universe agree with your
assessment of the proper fate for those Keeper idiots, it is not that simple.
Joe, 
think
 for change, please. The
Kristang still possess their research and the pathogen. They can use it later,
all they really need to do is 
threaten

to use it later. Humans on Paradise will be treated with suspicion as potential
deadly threats, until the Ruhar have a vaccine and a cure against the pathogen.
I can’t develop a vaccine or cure from the data Colonel Perkins collected,
there isn’t enough detail in that data. We need samples, Joe, samples and
subjects to test my potential cures on.”

“Oh, crap. We need to take those infected
Keepers alive? We need to 
rescue

them?”

“Yes, at least some of them, Joe. More would be
better than less, obviously.”

“Mister Skippy,” Major Smythe asked eagerly,
having appeared behind my chair as if by magic. Damn, did he have a magic trouble
predictor that told him when the Merry Band of Pirates would run into a problem
that required his help? “Can I assume we need to board and seize two stealthed
dropships?”

“Yes, and somehow you need to do it without that
destroyer discovering somebody took control of those dropships, or the
destroyer could cause trouble for us. We need to keep quiet until we have full
control of both dropships and we are certain the Keepers are aboard and
infected, so I can get useful samples. Any sort of ruckus out here will attract
a dozen Ruhar ships and blow the whole operation.”

“Sounds like we need a stealthy spaceborne
assault,” no amount of British reserve could keep the grin off Smythe’s face.
“Colonel Bishop, my team will plan the assault, and I will recommend-”

“No, Major,” I cut him off. “You can 
plan
 a spaceborne assault, but you do
not get a vote on whether the op is a ‘Go’ or not.”

“Sir?” He looked genuinely surprised and maybe a
little hurt.

“I know you SAS guys by now. If there is a
choice between ‘do crazy shit’ and ‘not do crazy shit’, you will vote for ‘do
crazy shit’ every time.”

“Oh,” he chuckled, relieved to understand I was
not actually mad at him.

“Ha!” Skippy interjected. “Joe, with some of the
wild stuff 
you
 have done, you should
not complain about someone else’s enthusiasm for nutcase stunts.”

“Skippy, it may be true that I have a timeshare
in Crazytown, but Major Smythe is the 
mayor

of Crazyland.”

“That 
is

why we are out here, Colonel,” Smythe observed with dry humor.

“If you had wanted tea and crumpets in the
parlor, you could have stayed home?”

“Something like that.”

“Okay, you can plan an assault, but we’ll take
it as a given that you are in favor of a ‘Go’ order. Well?” I made a shooing
motion with one hand. “Get on with it, then, we don’t have much time.”

“Yes, Sir,” he replied eagerly, spun crisply on
his heels and strode off down the passageway.

“Why do I have the feeling I will very much not
like whatever plan he thinks up?” I asked to no one in particular.

Skippy answered for me. “Because, Major Smythe’s
plan will not include little Joey tagging along as a mascot. You should stay
here, right here, where you can’t do any harm. Not much harm, anyway, because I
will be here to keep you out of trouble.”

 

 While
Smythe’s team dreamed up crazy plans, Skippy gathered all the data he could get
about those dropships. “Ok, I’m done analyzing both of them. Can’t get any more
data from out here, without alerting the Kristang that someone is watching
them.”

“Outstanding! Can you do your magical creepy bot
thing to take over those dropships. Wait!” I held up a hand. “Are all the
Keepers aboard those two dropships? The Kristang didn’t leave a few on the ship
to use later, in case something went wrong?”

“No Keepers aboard the ship, Joe, the Kristang
have all their eggs in two baskets for this operation. The answer is no, I
can’t take control of the dropships the way I did with the ship. The critical
systems of a dropship are all inside the cabin, and someone would surely see
bots crawling around. Ironically, I can’t take control of the dropships because
their technology is so crude. That sucks, but it is what it is. There are some
minor tricks I can play, but for the major part of the operation, you monkeys
will have to do this the hard way.”

“Oh, crap,” I groaned. “Major Smythe,” I pinged
him over the intercom but his voice came from behind my chair.

“Here, Sir,” he announced with what to the
British might be considered unseemly eagerness. And he was wearing a freshly-pressed
uniform, it looked like I could slice open my hand on the crease of his
trousers. When the hell had he changed into a new uni?

“I suppose now you and your team are up to bat.”
The British did not play baseball, but they did play cricket, and ‘up to bat’
was a term they understood. While Skippy gathering data about the pair of
dropships, Smythe had developed a plan to secure the Keepers and bring them
back to the 
Flying Dutchman
.

“Permission to, as you said, ‘Do crazy shit’,
Sir?” His ear-to-ear grin was definitely unseemly, and I was glad to see it.

I snapped a salute to him, though we generally
dispensed with salutes aboard the ship. “Permission for crazy shit granted,
Major. Under one condition.”

“What’s that, Colonel?” He asked, a bit of his
grin having slipped.

“That you not have 
too
 much fun.”

“We will do our best to be thoroughly miserable
about it, Sir.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTY
Skippy was right, Smythe’s assault plan did not
include me going with him, and that was not a shock to me. My proper place was
in the command chair during an operation, unless for some reason Skippy had needed
to go with the assault team and he wanted me along in case he needed a
‘monkey-brain’ idea at the last moment.

Major Smythe and his SpecOps team were suiting
up for the operation to board and capture the two stealthed dropships that were
carrying the infected Keepers to Paradise, so I went down to the armory to help
them get their gear squared away. Ok, no, the team did not need me to do
anything, I was really there because I was jealous that I would be stuck aboard
the ship while Smythe’s team had all the fun.

“Hey, Joe,” Skippy piped up in the cheery tone
that meant he was up to no good.

“Oh, crap, Skippy, what is it now?”

“You say ‘crap’ like you assume this has to be
something bad,” he said in a huff.

“You being bubbly and cheery like that is
usually a bad sign for me.”

“Ha! You are 
so

wrong this time, dumdum. This is nothing but good for you, And really, for the
entire galaxy.”

No way was I getting my hopes up until I knew
what he was talking about. “What, did the Maxolhx surrender or something like
that?”

“Way better than that, Joe,” he was so cheery
that for a moment I got my hopes up. Then he crushed my hopes like they had
fallen into a neutron star. “I have a whole 
new

batch of showtunes ready for your listening enjoyment.”

“That’s great, Skippy, truly, really great,” I
caught the panicked looks from the SpecOps people around me. “But hey, how
about you save your batch of bodaciously superduper new show tunes for the next
time I am in a spacesuit, falling into the atmosphere of a gas giant or
something?”

“Oh. Sure, Joe, because having me sing new
showtunes would be a comfort to you, at a stressful time when you are facing
certain and painful death?”

“Um, I was thinking that having to listen to
your showtunes would make the idea of plunging to death in a gas giant sound
like sweet release, but let’s go with the comfort thing.”

“Joe, why are you such an asshole?”

“Maybe I was dropped on the head as a child?”

“No, I think that’s just who you are. Ok, smart
guy, I 
was
 going to treat you to a
preview of my latest batch of showtunes-”

“And now you’re not?” I prepped one hand to
exchange a high-five with Major Smythe.

“No, I am not. That is your loss,” Skippy sniffed.

“Yes!” Smythe slapped me five, holding back so
he didn’t break any bones in my hand. “How did I get so lucky? I was afraid you
planned to torture the away team with show tunes during their space dive.” Damn
it, I should have known that I had just screwed myself, because the universe
hates Joe Bishop.

“Instead,” Skippy continued as if I had not
spoken, “you can be the guinea pigs as I practice my current obsession: arias.”

“Oh, 
shit
,”
my blood ran cold and Smythe glared at me, looking at his hand as if he wanted
to take back the high-five. “Arias? You mean, like, 
opera
?”

“Very good, Joe, I am actually impressed you
know what an aria is.”

“Yeah, it’s when some guy sounds like he’s
strangling a cat and it goes on way too long.”

“Ugh,” he gave an exasperated sigh. “You are
such a cretin, Joe. Here. Let me smack you with some culture.”

“Please don-” But it was too late.

“For my first effort, the famous tenor aria from
Puccini’s opera Turandot, ‘Nessun Dorma’, or ‘None shall sleep’.” He then
launched into a tune that I’m sure everyone has heard at some point in their
lives, whether they wanted to or not. Except most people heard the version sung
by Pavarotti or maybe it was Caruso or, whatever, some guy on stage in a dark suit.
That was not what we heard from Skippy’s awful, screeching, warbling off-key
rendition. “
Nessun dorma! Nessun dorma!
Tu pure, la Principessa, nella tua fredda stanza
-”

“Sir,” Smythe looked at me, deadly serious,
“whatever you have to do, make it stop.”

“I’m trying, Major,”
I responded lamely. “I don’t know what-”

“We have a whole cargo bay full of nukes,”
Smythe added and several people nodded. With Smythe’s reserved British sense of
humor, I didn’t know if he was joking or not.

“If he won’t stop, I’ll throw 
myself
 out an airlock,” Williams was now
glaring at me.

“Uh-” I gave him a goofy smile while trying to
think. Meanwhile, Skippy continued to torment us, wrapping up to a big dramatic
finish.

“
Tramontate,
stelle! All’alba vincero! Vincero! VINCEROOOOOO!
” Then, “Thank you, thank
you, you have been a wonderful audience. No autographs, please.”

“Oh, thank God,” I exploded with relief, “it’s
over.”

“What? Come on, Joe, I was just getting warmed
up.”

“Crap, Skippy, if we could weaponize your
singing, we could conquer the galaxy in like, a week. Please, 
please
 for the love of God, no more
opera like that.”

“Hmmph. Damn, I try to raise your cultural
standards and all you give me is grief about it. Ok, how about some selections
from Kristang opera?”

That made my eyes bulge out of my head. “The 
Kristang
 like opera?”

“Of course they do, dumdum. You already knew
they love poetry. Those hateful lizards just 
love
 their operas, especially the tragic kind. Particularly when
the tragedy happens to someone else, hee hee. Hey, here’s one that-”

“Skippy, please, I’m begging you, no lizard
opera.”

“How about Klingon opera?”

“Not that either,” I hastened to say, not
knowing whether he was joking or not.

“Joe, this much talent can’t be contained
forever,” Skippy warned.

“Oh bullocks,” Smythe sighed. “Mister Skippy,
could you save your remarkable singing talent for the next time we have a
prisoner to interrogate, like that Maxolhx? Sir,” he turned to me, “special
operations troops are trained to resist interrogation. I know one of the
American outfits uses a recording of the poem ‘Boots’ by Rudyard Kipling,
because it is bloody awful and monotonous and goes on forever; it is impossible
to ignore. The SAS uses similar tactics, but nothing compares to your beer can
singing opera.”

“I hear you, Major,” I felt like a small boy
being reprimanded by a schoolmaster, and I noticed he referred to Skippy as 
my
 beer can.

“Hey!” Skippy was insulted. “Have you ever heard
Joe sing? His voice is 
terrible
.”

“My voice is not that bad.”

“Oh really?” The beer can asked with icy
sarcasm. “How come you never participate on karaoke night?”

“Because I, uh, because-”

“Come on, Joe, sing something for us, Show your
incredible talent.”

He pissed me off enough that I launched into a
song I just made up. “
Some enchanted
morning, you might see a beer can, you might see a beer can, upon a dusty
shelf. And somehow you know, you know even then, that you will regret it, again
and again. No one can explain it, Skippy doesn’t try. Beer cans are assholes,
no point asking why. Once you have found Skip, run far awaaaaay!”
 My voice
cracked on that last part.

“Oh, Joe,” Skippy’s avatar gave me a thoroughly
disgusted ironic slow clap, “that was truly freakin’ hilarious.”

He was being sarcastic, but Smythe’s team gave
me a thunderous standing ovation and drowned out the beer can.

His avatar waved a hand in exasperation. “Oh,
shut up.” And the avatar winked out.

Man, if the crew applauded my terrible singing,
they really went wild when Skippy disappeared. “Encore! Encore!” The crowd
shouted.

 

While Smythe’s team
were on their long spacedive to board and capture the stealthed dropships, I
had nothing to do, so I was in my office catching up on paperwork. All along, I
was supposed to complete crew evaluation reports and now that we could
potentially soon be on our way back to Earth, I had a mountain of forms to fill
in. The next one in my stack was Gunnery Sergeant Margaret Adams and I checked
the appropriate boxes at the top, then I froze. What the hell would I say about
Adams? What 
could
 I say? Whatever I
put in that evaluation file, how could I be sure I was being fair to her, and
being fair to everyone else in the crew? A commander can’t play favorites and
let his personal feelings affect his—

Part of her file
caught my eye. It was available only to me, as it was the official assessment
by psychologists assigned by Marine Corps and UNEF Command to review her mental
and emotional fitness for duty, after we returned from our first mission.
Another assessment had been conducted after we returned from our second
mission. I had been forced to talk with Army headshrinkers both times, there
was nothing unusual about that, the entire crew went through something similar.
So far, I had not snuck a peek at anyone’s psych eval records, all I cared about
was they had been officially cleared for duty.

But I had to admit
Adams was different. I had not looked at her file because I did not 
want
 to know what was inside her head,
and my reasons for that went beyond respecting her privacy. Reading her file, getting
in her head like that, was too intimate for me. We had to keep our relationship
strictly professional and if that was the way it had to be, I did not want to
be tempted into taking 
any
 steps
toward intimacy when we were stuck aboard a ship for months or years.

I closed her file
without saving it.

“Hey, Joe, you
didn’t finish.”

“Not today, Skippy.”

“You say that 
every
 time you look at her file,” Skippy
sighed. “Joe, you never asked Sergeant Adams why she was in that jail on
Paradise.”

“She refused orders
from the lizards just like me, I don’t need details.”

“I disagree, but more importantly, you have also
never asked about 
what
 happened to
her in jail, what the Kristang-”

“I don’t want to know, Skippy. It’s in her
classified personnel records, I know that file includes notes from the Marine
Corps psych people who cleared Adams for duty. If 
she
 wants to tell me, I will listen,” my voice choked up while I
spoke, so I gulped coffee to cover my emotional state. The fact is, I wanted
Adams to tell me about it. No. That’s not what I meant. What I want is to be a
person she can talk to about-No, that’s not it either. I want her to feel
comfortable talking about it with me, because we have that kind of
relationship. The kind of relationship where two people can tell each other
anything, and do tell each other everything. If we could—

Crap. No, that’s not what I want either. Ok,
yes, I do want that. Problem is, I am Margaret Adams’ commanding officer, and
by the rules of the US military, that is the end of the discussion, period.

Sometimes I really, really hate my job.

“Are you Ok, Joe?” Skippy asked quietly, in that
rarely-used tone indicating he was being completely serious.

“Yeah, I’m fine,” I gulped more cold coffee,
which sucked. “My throat is dry, been talking too much. And this damned coffee
is cold.”

“You need to know-”

“Drop the subject, Skippy,” I used my own tone
of voice to indicate I was also being completely serious.

“Nope, not this time, Joe. Without breaching any
confidential records, I know something that you 
need
 to know. You are her commanding officer, you need to
understand her psychological state. It affects her fitness for duty.”

“You’ve never questioned
 my
 fitness for duty,” I blurted out before thinking. “I mean,
you’ve never questioned whether my experience in that jail affected my fitness.
And you’ve never said Chang or Desai being there affected them in a way that-”

“Margaret’s experience there was different from
you other three prisoners.”

“Skippy, I know the Kristang tortured women, and
I don’t want to hear the details unless Adams or Desai want to talk about it.
Desai was there, why aren’t you concerned about her?”

“Let me ask one question, Joe. Have you ever
wondered why a staff sergeant was still alive when the Ruhar hit the jail? You
know the Kristang were planning to kill the higher-ranking prisoners last,
that’s why you as a colonel and Lieutenant Colonel Chang had not been executed
yet. Desai was a captain back then, but Margaret’s rank is much lower and she
was still alive.”

“Uh-” I stalled for time because, no, I had not
given that any thought. While we were escaping from that jail and then during
the mind-blowing events that followed, I didn’t have time to consider why Adams
had survived that long. She was in a jail cell when I found her, and thank God
the cell doors in that jail didn’t require a key or passcode or retinal scan to
unlock from the outside, because if I had to do anything but press a button to
get the doors open, the four of us would all have died that day. “No, I haven’t
ever thought about that.”

“You should. The Kristang originally were
executing women on the same schedule as men, starting with privates and working
their way up the rank structure. The highest-ranking female prisoner was a
major, but they killed her the day before the Ruhar arrived. Before Margaret
was scheduled to be hung for defying orders.”

“Ooookaaay,” I answered slowly. “That 
is
 odd. What changed?”

“Margaret Adams caused the Kristang to change
their plans, and what she did then is affecting her today. As her CO, you need
to hear this.”

“Nothing you tell me will-”

He kept going. “The number of women prisoners
was only a quarter of the men. That ratio is higher than the percentage of
women overall in UNEF.”

“A higher percentage of women refused orders
from the lizards?”

“Yes, but the Kristang were also more strict
with women on what behavior was considered treasonous. One Indian lieutenant
was executed because she simply requested confirmation from her chain of
command, after she received an order directly from the Kristang. Because she
did not immediately obey Kristang orders to fire on Ruhar civilians, she was
considered a traitor. Based on statements she made afterward, she likely would
have refused those orders regardless of whether her chain of command affirmed
them, but the Kristang warrior caste can’t stand a female disobeying them, you
know that.”

“Yeah. Yeah, I do.” The lizards hated the idea
of any female having authority, it had been a problem for UNEF right from the
start. Women in Kristang society had no power, they were basically property. A
confidential memo I read after going back to Earth, stated that UNEF Command
had taken fewer female officers than was normal for the force structure, a
decision made to avoid friction with the Kristang. Some female officers had
accepted reductions in rank so they could join the Expeditionary Force; for
example Desai was in line for promotion to major, but she remained a captain
when she left Earth. She got promoted to major when the 
Dutchman
 went to Earth the first time, but for a while I kept
calling her ‘Captain’ out of habit because I am a dumbass.

“Ok, what happened to Adams that is so important
for me to know?” One way or the other, I needed to know if it was still
bothering her. Although Skippy was mostly clueless about humanity, sometimes I
had to trust him about important personnel matters. “Don’t give me any details
unless they’re important.”

“I will skip the unpleasant details, that for
sure is something Margaret would not be happy other people knowing.” He paused
and it almost sounded like he was taking a deep breath before plunging ahead
with the story, it was one of those times he tried to imitate human mannerisms
and he was getting better at it. “The day after you were brought to the jail, the
Kristang had all the women prisoners in one room and were torturing a British
Army private and making the other women watch. This private was scheduled to be
executed the next morning and the Kristang, um, were eager to have fun before
they killed her.”

“Shit.” I gripped the coffee cup so hard my
knuckles turned white.

“A Chinese Army Major Zhou protested and the
Kristang turned their attention to her. That Major was originally supposed to
be one of the last to be executed, but as the Kristang were abusing Zhou,
Sergeant Adams told the lizards to take her instead. This Major Zhou was
already injured from an air crash when she arrived at the jail, and Adams’
sense of honor rebelled at seeing a wounded person being abused.”

“Goddamn.”

“Margaret Adams is a very brave woman, Joe.”

“Is that what’s bothering her, she thinks she
asked for it?” I figured the Kristang were going to do whatever they wanted,
regardless of what Adams said or did.

“No. The problem is Adams not only demanded the
lizards leave the injured Major Zhou alone, she taunted the lizards. One of the
jailors came over to shoot Adams with a sort of electric shock tool to make her
stop talking, but Adams had managed to get one of her hands free, and she
struck the lizard across the face, scratched him with her fingernails.”

“Is that why she had those scars across her
back? The lizards getting back at her?”

“No, Joe, the lizards did that, and worse, to
all the women. The issue Margaret is still struggling with is what happened
next. Instead of taking their anger out on Adams, the lizards made her watch as
they slowly tortured Major Zhou to death. It took sixteen hours, Joe, the
Kristang administered crude medical treatments to keep Zhou alive so they could
continue abusing her. Then they told Adams she would be killed last, so she
would have to watch all the other women suffer first.”

“Holy shit.”

“Yeah. Margaret feels guilty that she is the
reason Major Zhou suffered so greatly, rather than dying from hanging or a
quick bullet to the head.”

“She isn’t to blame, the lizards are!”

“You don’t need to convince me, Joe. So, that is
the reason Staff Sergeant Adams was not executed before the Ruhar hit the jail;
the lizards wanted her to see all the other women suffer and die. Desai was
scheduled to die the day you escaped, and Adams the next day. Joe, I do not
wish to make it seem like Desai did not suffer, but by the time the Kristang
got to her, they had almost gotten bored with torture. Desai knows she did not
have to endure as much abuse as most of the women prisoners, and that is the
source of her own guilt.”

“She is having a problem with it also?”

“Yes, but not to the extent that the experience
is affecting Adams. Desai and Adams talked about what happened to them in that
jail, they told each other things they did not even tell the psychologists at
UNEF Command.”

“Do 
not

tell me any of it.”

“But what if-”

“No ‘buts’, Skippy, I am dead serious about
this. Adams and Desai were already violated by the lizards, and partly by our
pysch people prying into their heads. I am not going to violate their privacy.”

“I understand that,
Joe, and I applaud your sense of honor, but-”

“But nothing. Skippy, I have to trust Adams. I
have to trust that if she thinks she is a risk to the ship or combat
operations, she will remove herself from the duty roster. She is a soldier, I
mean, technically she’s a Marine. Adams is a professional, hell, she’s more of
a real officer than I am, even if she doesn’t have a commission.”

“That’s great, Joe,
however-”

“Tell me this: is Margaret Adams a danger to the
ship, the mission or herself?”

“Not at the present.”

“If that changes, you tell me immediately, Ok?
Understood? Otherwise, drop the subject. And don’t tell Adams we had this
discussion.”

“Um, Ok, understood, except for that last part.
Wouldn’t it help bring you two together if she knows that you know what is
bothering her?”

“Jeez, Skippy, how can you be so clueless about
people? No! If she knew, then any discussion we had would be totally awkward,
and she would avoid me. Hey! What do you mean, ‘help bring us together’?”

“Joe, I know how you
feel about Margar-”

“Drop the subject, Skippy! Drop. The. Subject.
Period. Got it? D
o not
 mention it
again.”

“Got it. Wow, I
pressed a sensitive button there, you really-”

“Is this you 
not

talking about the subject?”

“Oh, sorry. Okey-dokey, Joe, I will not mention
this entire subject again, unless I determine Margaret is a risk to herself or
others. One last question, please? What if she asks me directly if I have
spoken to others about her?”

“Then you tell her the truth, Skippy.”

“Even if it makes things awkward between the two
of you?”

“There is no ‘thing’ between us, and I am 
not
 lying to her about this. Um, if she
does ask, make sure you tell her I instructed you not to tell me any personal
details, but you did it anyway.”

“Got it. Damn, Joe. I still have a lot to learn
about people, about soldiers in particular, and especially about women.”

“You and me both, Skippy. You and me both.”

 

It struck me then that I was 
not
 technically a commissioned officer,
as I only had a temporary field promotion to my theater rank of colonel. My
regular Army status of sergeant was a non-commissioned rank, just like Margaret
Adams. Crap, as if my life wasn’t complicated enough without my brain making
trouble for me with unhelpful thoughts. Somehow, I needed to get my brain to
understand that aboard the 
Flying
Dutchman
 I am Gunnery Sergeant Adams’ commanding officer. Even if, I mean
when, we get back to Earth, we both would expect that we’re taking the 
Dutchman
 back out, and I’ll be her CO
again. Crap, my real problem is that I was lonely, sometimes really desperately
lonely. The only one I could talk to was an asshole beer can and he wasn’t much
help. Ok, he did help, but it wasn’t like talking with a human.

Oh to hell with it anyway. Adams was getting
romantic with a French paratrooper, according to what Skippy had told me, way
back before we jumped into the Roach Motel. Hey, I was happy for her, for both
of them. When you’re lonely, it helps to know someone out there is making a
genuine connection with another person.

Ok, so I lied. Knowing Adams had a close friend
aboard the ship made me more lonely, not less. But I was truly happy for her.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTY ONE
There were two dropships, so we had two teams
participating in the assault. Because the French team had missed most of the
action during our black op on Kobamik, Renee Giraud commanded one of the teams,
with Smythe himself in command of the other. Each team had eight people, and I
was mildly unhappy to see Giraud had included Ranger Lauren Poole on his team,
but I didn’t interfere. My unofficial bodyguard had every right to risk her
neck like everyone else, and she loved doing crazy shit as much as any of our
pirate crew.

Our Thuranin Falcon dropships, in full stealth
mode, coasted into the meteor shower and the assault teams stepped out the rear
ramps into the cold blackness of space. The teams were all wearing Kristang
powered armor suits, with jetpacks and portable stealth field generators. Their
momentum had them approaching the enemy at 20 kilometers per minute so they did
not need to use the jetpacks, other than to get clear of our Falcon dropships
and assemble in formation. The Falcons very gently altered course to get clear
of the meteors and far enough away so they were comfortably beyond range of the
crappy Kristang sensors.

 

While anxiously waiting for the assault team to
reach their targets, I was in my office and Skippy was berating me about being
stupid, or something like that, truthfully I wasn’t listening. “Hey! Hey, Joe,
what’s going on? I just smacked you upside the head with primo insults I’ve
been saving for when you do something egregiously idiotic, and you barely
reacted. You are totally phoning it in today, what is wrong with you?”

“Sorry, Skippy,” I flipped my laptop closed, not
interested in the game I had been playing. “I’m kind of bummed out today,
that’s all.”

“Hmmm. Well, you are an ignorant monkey, and a
member of a species unlikely to survive the next decade despite our best
efforts out here-”

“Is 
this

how you cheer me up?”

“Cheer you up? Why would I do that? Oh, oh, right,

duh
. Heh, heh, my bad. Is this when I
should try that ‘empathy’ thing?”

“Ya think?”

“Ok, uh. How about this? There, there, Joey,
everything will be all right,” he said mechanically. “And, um, you know, some
other meaningless bullshit people say to comfort their friends. Hey! In fact,
since the odds are you monkeys will be extinct soon, you should consider that a
license to work on a bucket list. What would you like to-”

“Skippy, I do not think you get what ‘empathy’
is.”

“Really? Hmm, according to the dictionary it is ‘
the capacity to understand or feel what another person
is experiencing from within their frame of reference’. Like, placing yourself
in another’s position. Walk a mile in another man’s shoes, that sort of thing.”

“So, you do
understand-”

“Although walking
in somebody else’s shoes just sounds like a good way to get blisters. Also,
yuck, what if his feet stink? Seriously, I would not touch 
your
 shoes with a-”

“Ok, you know what
empathy is, can you see you are not actually doing it?”

“What? Dude, I am 
totally
 being empathetic, even though it
seems like a pain-in-the-
ass
 waste of
my time. I understand you are feeling, as you said, ‘bummed out’ about
something. See? I knew something was bothering you, because I understood what
you were experiencing.”

“Uh huh. Yet, your
way of comforting me was to talk about how humanity is doomed-”

“Aha! Wait, I think I see the problem now. Empathy
means you understand what some jerk is feeling, blah, blah, blah.”

“Saying ‘jerk’ makes me think you don’t-”

“Empathy means I 
understand
. It doesn’t mean I 
care
.
That is 
completely
 different.”

“Oh, man, you’ve got to be kidding-”

“Oh, crap, you 
do

expect me to care?” He asked, astonished. “Holy shit. This empathy thing is 
waaay
 out of control. 
UGH
,” I had rarely heard him sound so
thoroughly disgusted.

“How about we avoid the whole subject? Thanks,
Skippy, I feel so much better now.”

“Cool! See? I made you feel better by understanding
how you are feeling!”

“Yeah, that’s, uh, what I was going to say.”

“At the risk of you boring me to tears by having
to listen to you whine and blah, blah, blah for-freakin’-
ever
 about your stupid problems, what is bothering you?”

“Thanks, Skippy, it is super heartwarming that
you asked.”

“Seriously, dude, is your bad mood because there
is no real maple syrup left at breakfast this morning? Major Simms did warn you
that our food supplies are running thin.”

“It’s not the maple syrup, or all the other food
we’re running out of. I’m worried about Smythe’s boarding party. If things go
badly out there, we might have to risk exposure to protect Paradise.”

“I’m not worried about it, Joe.”

“Because Smythe and his team are the very best at
what they do, and I should trust them?”

“Uh, oh. I only meant that I am not worried about
it because, hey, what the hell do
 I

care? You, on the other hand, should be scared shitless about this op.”

“Oh for crying out-”

“Seriously, dude, there are, like, a million ways the
boarding op could go sideways and then you would be totally screwed. Hey, hey!
Right there! Right there I just proved that I understand what you are feeling,
right? I totally nailed this empathy thing. I am the 
King
 of Empathy, baby! 
Whoo-hoo
!”

“Oh this is not going well.”

 

In his visor display, Renee Giraud could see the
location of every member of his team and he could see Smythe’s team of four
people. Technically, he could not see anything beyond the inner faceplate of
his suit, because the entire assault team was wrapped in stealth fields, so
photons from the local star and even the faint glimmer of surrounding starlight
were neatly bent around each soldier. More importantly, even if any photons had
managed to bounce off a soldier’s armor, they would never reach Giraud’s eyes,
as his own stealth field curved those photons around him like he wasn’t there
are all. So, his vision was provided by sensors at the end of four ultrathin
wires, projecting in front, back and to each side. Those sensors passively
collected data which allowed him to periodically puff his jetpack’s thrusters
to avoid colliding with a space rock, and they received weak, low-power burst
transmissions from the suits of other people. The datalink between the team
only told Giraud where his people were, their condition and the status of their
suits. It did not tell him what he really needed to know; where his target
dropship was located and what it was doing.

The two teams coasted through space, only using
their jetpacks to dodge rocks and chunks of ice as they glided silently through
the cloud of comet debris. From sunlight shining off objects in front of him,
Giraud’s suit could see obstacles he needed to avoid, although his suit was
regularly pelted by fine particles of dust and ice that he could not avoid. The
impacts were so gentle at the slow speed the team was moving relative to the
cloud, that there was no danger to suits or the humans inside, though everyone
had the armored shield lowered over their faceplates for maximum safety.

Everything was going exactly according to the
plan Smythe and Giraud had developed, which worried the Frenchman, because
almost nothing ever went right on a Plan A for the Merry Band of Pirates. In
the rare case that a Plan A did go well, karma was sure to make them pay the
price later.

Skippy had assured them they could successfully
complete the assault with only two people on each team, and one of them was for
support and backup. Four on each team was a compromise to have enough people to
complete the operation if something went wrong, and not having too many
people’s lives at risk if something went seriously wrong.

“There has been no reaction from either dropship
to your presence,” Skippy reported. “Your portable stealth fields are working
optimally, you can thank me for the enhancements, by the way. Unless they move
suddenly, my masking of their sensor probe should conceal your approach.”

“Acknowledged,” Giraud replied quietly and he
heard Smythe do the same. Skippy had not been able to infiltrate and take
control of the dropships the way he had with the destroyer, but his magic was
able to help significantly. With the dropships encased in surprisingly
effective stealth fields, they each would be blind if not for a probe extending
forward from the nose, and a sensor at the end of a stiff cable trailing
behind. Those tiny sensors were outside the stealth field, passively picking up
data from the surrounding space. The greatest danger of discovery for the
assault team was if one of them had to maneuver suddenly to avoid a chunk of
rock, even the cold gas thrusters used by the jetpacks might be detected if
used close enough to the dropships. In the final approach, there was also a
risk of even typically crappy Kristang sensors noticing the spatial distortion created
by the individual stealth fields of the assault team.

To help the assault teams, Skippy had performed
what he considered a rather lame bit of magic. Using microwormholes he had very
gently moved into position behind each dropship, he projected stealth fields
through the event horizon and wrapped them around the sensor trailing behind
the dropships. With the sensors now unable to receive real photons from outside
the stealth field, Skippy fed false data to the sensors, data which showed only
happy views of utterly benign, empty space other than the rocks and ice the
Kristang expected. The beer can had wanted to try transmitting a virus down the
sensor cable, to partially take control of the dropships that way, but Little
Joey Bishop the Buzzkill Party Pooper had vetoed that no doubt cool but risky
and unnecessary stunt. So, Skippy was bored while he waited for the assault
team to get close enough to use their jetpacks to slow down for the intercept.

 

Giraud ran a status check on his suit, jetpack,
weapons and other gear, then he did the same for the other three members of his
team, though he could see they had all run status checks. Then he concentrated
on examining what was known about his target, now that he was getting close
enough for his suit’s sensors to directly pick up the extremely low-power
datalink through the microwormhole behind the dropship. At first, all seemed
normal, the target appeared to be a mostly ordinary Kristang model the Pirates
referred to as a Dragon-B. There were some pods attached under the stubby wings
and one running along the top of the cabin, Giraud assumed they were part of
the enhanced stealth gear. Everything was as expected, and he saw no reason to
make even minor changes to the assault plan.

Then he saw something that shocked him. “
Merde
. Mister Skippy, the image I am
seeing,” he paused to eyeclick through a menu to zoom in on and then enhance
the data. “On the nose of that dropship, there is a symbol. Is that, it can’t
be, it,” his voice sputtered to a halt, too astonished to continue. He took a
sip of sugar water to give his mind time to recover. “Did the Kristang paint on
the nose of their ship a, a, 
Hello Kitty
?”

“What? Oh, hahahahahahaha!” The beer can
guffawed with laughter. “You thought that was 
real
? Oh, man, you monkeys are endlessly gullible! Damn, it is
almost not any fun to screw with you, it is just too easy. I’ll suck it up and
keep doing it, of course.”

“You are showing me a false image?” Giraud
demanded.

“Oh come on, Renee,” Skippy scolded playfully.
“Technically, with that dropship wrapped in a stealth field, 
any
 image I show you is false. All I can
get from the sensor data through the wormholes is a rough outline, so I know
the model and basic configuration. Anything else is a guess. The wormholes are
close enough that I could pretty accurately map the exterior of that ship by
projecting a sensor field, but as that would immediately alert the lizards they
are being tracked, I should probably not do that, mmmm?”

“No,” Giraud bit off a sarcastic reply. “Do not
do that. Please could you-what?”

“Is that better?” In the data feed, Skippy had
replaced the Hello Kitty nose art with a popular French comic book character
Asterix the Gaul, complete with wings atop his helmet and a generously drooping
mustache.

“Better, yes. Better than 
that
 would be to not show us data you are guessing at.”

“What would be the fun in that? You’ve got to
let me amuse myself while I’m waiting, since you monkeys aren’t doing anything
to amuse me. Hey! I have a great idea! You will be conducting a dangerous
assault in nine minutes, how about some appropriately stirring music to get you
pumped up?”

“That would be an awful idea. Do not-”

“Too late! Prepare to be dazzled by ‘Ride of the
Valkyries’ by Wagner.”

“Ha!” Giraud thought he had been saved from the
jaws of death. “That is an instrumental piece, Skippy, you can’t sing it.”

“Oh you are 
SO

wrong, 
mon enfant
. Most people think
there are no lyrics because they are used to hearing the orchestral version.
You don’t speak German, so I will take pity on you and sing the
English-language version.”

“No!”

The music began with instruments, and at first
the French paratrooper thought he had gotten lucky. Then the beer can began to
sing, if such an out-of-tune warble could be called singing. “
Oh warfather on high, I am calling you from
the battlefield, and as I take my last breath, I call for the mightiest of
miracles
.”

“Now I know why you never hear the lyrics,”
Giraud muttered, but Skippy ignored him and plunging on singing lustily.

“
For none
but the brave, be he king or a slave, with pounding heart in his chest, will be
worthy to rise and with the Valkyries fly
-”

Giraud considered that after he departed from
that world, the humans on Paradise had suffered from attack by Kristang
warships. They had survived for years on whatever plants they could grow,
enduring a bland and mostly vegetarian diet. They had been forcibly relocated,
first to the steaming jungles of equatorial Lemuria, then to the temperate
southern region of that continent. Perhaps the worst deprivation humans on
Paradise suffered was being cut off from Earth, never hearing from their loved
ones back home. They lived every day in fear that the Ruhar would turn against
the aliens who had come to the planet as an occupation force. And from
communications Skippy had intercepted, the vast majority of humans stranded far
from home feared the population of their home world may have been enslaved or
exterminated by the Kristang.

Despite all the suffering and deprivation
endured by humans on Paradise, none of them ever had to listen to a beer can
singing. Not for the first time, Renee Giraud asked himself if he had made a
terrible mistake by volunteering, way back when a publicity-stunt colonel named
Joe Bishop had dropped out of the sky in a stolen Ruhar dropship, and announced
he had a lunatic plan to hit the Kristang. What the 
hell
 was I thinking, Giraud asked himself as he listened to Skippy
warble his way through the opera.

“
I’m dying
and glad to bleed, because I know todaaaay, I take my place with the heroes in
Valhaaaaaaala of old
- oh, damn it, I have to stop, you need to prepare for
the boarding operation.”

“Thank God. Skippy, I would rather not die and
be glad to bleed today, if you don’t mind.”

“Would you prefer to skip the fighting songs and
listen to me sing selections from ‘Madame Butterfly’?”

“In that case, I would very much prefer the
bleeding and dying option, please.”

“Hmm,” Skippy sniffed. “You pirates have 
no
 culture. No matter now, because you
need to lead your team on yet another ill-advised crazy stunt.”

“Ill-advised? This was 
your
 idea,” Giraud fumed inside his armored suit.

“Yes, but you monkeys were dumb enough to listen
to a beer can. You don’t see 
me
 out
there flying around, do you? No, I am staying safe and warm aboard the 
Dutchman
, while you hotshot types
eagerly zoom into the unknown. Well, you crazy kids have fun, let me know what
happens.”

 

The period of increased danger was when both
assault teams, coordinating their actions exactly, programmed their jetpacks to
slow their approach. The jetpacks had main engines that could not be used
because their hot exhaust would be too visible so close to the targets, so they
relied on a lengthy, intermittent pulsing of the cold-gas thrusters. Even doing
that was risky, because to slow the users, the jetpacks vented the gas forward
to go flying past the targets. Soon, the sensor probes extending forward beyond
the noses of the dropships detected an unusual amount of gas floating past.
Yes, the sensors noted, the gas was the normal ratio of hydrogen and other
elements always present in the solar wind, and it was no more warm nor cold
than the surrounding cloud, but the gas density 
was
 unusual. If the bored pilots had been paying attention to their
instruments, they might have been curious about the anomaly, but all four
pilots were half asleep since they had absolutely nothing to do until it was
time to put the disgusting humans into aeroshells.

Without the pilots’ request, the sensor system
would still have sent out an alert on their own, except for the trick played by
the assault team. In addition to a jetpack, weapons, grappling gear, portable
stealth field generator and extra power packs, each suit had a package attached
to the chest, and that device activated when the thrusters began gently
pulsing.

The packages were filled with fine dust and ice
that exactly matched the composition of a broken comet that had created the
meteor shower cloud. Each package expelled a puff of this dust and ice to match
the thrusters, sending the contents forward to flow around the dropships. Mere
minutes before the Kristang sensor systems would have sent an alarm to the
pilots, they finished analyzing the contents of the particles drifting past
from the rear, and concluded there must have been a disturbance of some sort in
the debris cloud. Perhaps the entry of the dropships into the cloud had caused
objects to collide, or a passing asteroid had smacked its way through the
cloud. Whatever the explanation, it was nothing particularly unusual or worth alerting
the pilots about. So, the sensor systems continued quietly monitoring the area
as they had been instructed to do, and the pilots never knew there had been an
anomaly.

 

Maximum danger was when, one by one, the assault
team slowly entered the stealth fields of the dropships. Jetpacks had slowed
them to match the exact speed of the dropships so the teams were motionless
relative to their still-unseen targets, and each pirate was also wrapped in a
stealth field. Using thrusters so close to the enemy was too dangerous, so a
paratrooper holding onto Giraud gave his leader a gentle push with his arms,
sending Giraud slowly inward and the paratrooper away from the dropship. As he
slipped inside the stealth field, Giraud’s own stealth generator matched frequency
to avoid distorting the larger field. That frequency changed as he got closer
to the dropship’s hull, and he had to rely on Skippy controlling the generator
through the microwormhole, and an ultrathin cable extending from his suit to
the world outside the enveloping field. Encased in his own stealth and the
field created by the dropship, he was utterly blind. Except the synthetic
vision provided by his visor had a low-quality image provided by Skippy, as
that beer can mapped tiny fluctuations in the stealth field lines.

Giraud could not see the hull, he had no idea
what color it was or any fine details, but he did not need that. He could see
where to attach the grapple, and he did that at almost the same second Smythe’s
team was doing the same to the other dropship.

 

The two Kristang pilots in the dropship targeted
by Giraud’s team were startled by a faint 
ping

sound on the roof of the cabin, followed by a metallic scraping. Strapped into
their seats, they looked upward fearfully, then at each other. There was
another ping sound, this one gentler.

That should not be happening. They were drifting
in a cloud of dust, pebbles, chunks of ice and small rocks, but the entire
cluster was flying in formation. Nothing should be colliding until they were
much closer to the disruption of the planet’s gravity well. The dropship itself
had substantial mass compared to most objects in the cluster, and if the
dropship remained there long enough, its gravity would pull objects close to
it. But that would take a long time, much longer than the Kristang had been in
the swarm of ice and rock.

The fact there was more than one ping sound was
not usual, if the dropship had flown through a disturbance in the meteor cloud
then it should have been struck by multiple objects. Fingers flying over the
sensor controls, the copilot pulled up data showing there had indeed been an
anomaly detected by the sensor gear, but seeing the data actually made him
relax slightly and he pointed to the display. Whatever shower of pebbles had
pinged off the dropship’s hull, it had been proceeded by a cloud of dust and
ice too fine to have just been noticed by the pilots, but the sensors had
noticed it. The pilot shrugged and widened the passive scan, looking for any
nearby objects that might pose a danger to the craft he was responsible for.
There wasn’t anything significant in the area, so if anything else bounced off
the hull, it would be too small to pose any danger.

The lead pilot yawned, wriggled in his seat to
get comfortable again, and resumed playing the game he had paused. Getting
humans into aeroshells, setting them on a proper course in the meteor cloud,
then stealthily flying the dropship back to the 
Final Crushing Blow to the Enemy’s Spirit
 would be a long,
exhausting process and the pilot wanted to relax while he could. The game was
old but he was having more success than the last time he played it, and he was
enjoying—

Three things happened almost simultaneously.
There was a sizzling sound and a bright light from the roof of the cockpit. The
pilot’s ears popped as air pressure in the cockpit dropped and the rear cockpit
door seal inflated. The visor of his helmet began to swing down automatically,
too slowly to protect the pilot from the concussion grenade that was injected
into the cockpit through the hole created by Giraud’s explosive-tipped power
lance.

The interior of the cockpit instantly became a
shambles, displays shattered, controls knocked offline, pilot and copilot killed
as the soft tissue of their brains were smashed by the hammer blows of air
overpressure. If the cockpit had windows, they would have been blown out. Weak
spots in the inner pressure hull developed cracks and air briefly leaked out
until the nano-filled liquid sealant between hull layers filled in the gaps.

 

With his boots now securely clamped to the hull
above the cockpit, Giraud and another French paratrooper attached a probe to
the lance they used to burn through the hull and inject the grenade. Pressing a
trigger on top shot the probe down the hollow lance, and instantly they had a
view of the shattered cockpit. “Both pilots appear dead,” Giraud reported.

“I see that,” Skippy replied eagerly. “Scratch
the word ‘appeared’, I can tell they 
are

dead. Commence Phase Two.”

Giraud gave the order and the other pair of
soldiers activated their own lance above the main cabin, where they expected
the Keepers to be. This second lance quickly burned through outer and inner
hulls, injecting first a pair of long, thin flash-bang grenades to stun anyone
in the cabin, then flooding the cabin with a fast-acting gas that had a
temporary paralyzing effect on the human nervous system. That gas was followed
by an anesthetic to render the immobile victims unable to resist when the
assault team came through the airlock.

“Skippy, do you have control yet?” Giraud asked
anxiously while the right side of his visor showed him a view of the main
cabin. Nine Keepers were strapped into seats, inert but breathing shallowly.
One Keeper had acted quickly on his own initiative when the concussion grenade
detonated in the cockpit, he had unstrapped himself and now floated upside-down
near the roof of the cabin, his unconscious form bouncing off the ceiling. All
ten of the humans had tiny droplets of blood seeping from their ears, the
effect of the flash-bang grenade magnified in the confined, airtight space.
Major Smythe had inquired whether they should modify the grenades to dial down
the effect, but Colonel Bishop had instantly vetoed that idea when Skippy
stated he was confident no one would be permanently injured by the devices.
Bishop’s actual words had made even Giraud blush slightly, something like ‘F
those F-ing MFers I’d like to stuff an F-ing grenade in their F-ing pie holes,
serves those F-ing F-heads right’. That got a big laugh from the beer can, who
suggested the Colonel should tell people how he 
really
 felt.

“Don’t be so hasty, Renee,” Skippy snapped
peevishly. “This is delicate work, I have to wriggle that probe around to plug
it into-Ah, got it! Damn, it would have been a lot easier if some monkeys had
not gotten overeager with a concussion grenade, it almost crushed the access
port I had to plug into.”

“
You

tell us overkill is underrated.”

“Underrated, yes, but not always appropriate.
Ah, whatever, it’s done now. Because you SpecOps people are super-competitive,
you will be pleased to hear I took control of your dropship three hundredths of
a second before Major Smythe’s dropship.”

“It would be unprofessional of me to boast,
Skippy.”

“Uh huh, so I shouldn’t mention that fact to
Smythe?”

“Well,” Giraud grinned, knowing Skippy could see
inside his helmet. “You certainly should not withhold pertinent information
from the mission commander.”

“Of course not,” Skippy retorted with a verbal
eyeroll. “I am opening the rear door and the outer door to the portside
airlock. You need to detach from those bulky jetpacks and stealth generators. I
am not moving this thing until your team is securely inside the cabin and those
Keepers are prevented from causing any trouble.”

 

Giraud was first to enter the dropship’s cabin,
with another French paratrooper right behind him. As soon as the two cleared
the inner airlock door, it slid closed and the lock began pumping out air to
let the two other soldiers in. To prevent the four pirates from becoming
infected, they needed to remain sealed up in their armored suits, but the
dropship could not move until all four were secured inside the cabin.

The two paratroopers held their pistol-grip
shotguns in front of them. Shotguns, regular shotguns brought from Earth,
though the shells had a minimum charge of gunpowder and the pellets were
liquid-filled plastic. The pellets could hurt the unprotected Keepers, knock
them down if there had been any gravity, and certainly knock them back away
from the pirates. While the pellets had stopping power, they could not
penetrate the inner pressure hull of the dropship, nor create a hole that would
let precious air leak out.

“Cover me,” Giraud ordered in English though the
other soldier was also French, they had gotten used to speaking the official
language of the Merry Band of Pirates, and sticking to one language lessened
the possibility of miscommunication. With the other soldier hanging back near
the airlock and constantly scanning the cabin for threats, Giraud holstered his
shotgun and pushed off to float over to the main control computer module
attached to the back of the cockpit bulkhead. Forward of that bulkhead were two
dead Kristang pilots and flight controls smashed to uselessness. Flipping up an
access port, Giraud carefully plugged in what looked like a thumb drive, the
motion made awkward by his gloved fingers. “Plugged in. Skippy, do you-”

“Got it! Good job, Renee, I have control. How
are the Sleeping Beauties?”

Giraud gave a thumbs up sign to his companion
and turned to examine the Keepers, who all had their eyes closed and were
slack-jawed, drooling into the air as they breathed shallowly. “I would
describe them as Sleeping Uglies. They are not a problem. Gaston,” he called
the other paratrooper. “I am going to secure the prisoners,” he pulled out a
thick zip-tie and slipped it around the wrists of the closest Keeper. The
zip-ties were manufactured aboard the 
Dutchman

under Skippy’s direction, and had a feature allowing the beer can to release
the binds when needed. Working quickly by himself, and then with Gaston after
the others came through the airlock, all ten Keepers were secured in seats and
firmly strapped down so they could not cause any trouble. Then the pirates got
into seats, with Giraud and Gaston taking uncomfortable fold-down jumpseats up
against the forward bulkhead.

“Skippy, we are ready for boost,” Giraud
reported.

“Ok, I hope everyone used the bathroom before
you left the ship,” Skippy scolded. “And if any of those Keepers make a fuss I 
swear
 I am turning this thing around!”

Giraud reached out with a gloved hand and gently
moved a Keeper’s head side to side. The man was still out cold, a bubble of
snot forming at one nostril, and he was drooling, slack-jawed. “They will not
be causing trouble for anyone. Are you sure of the dosage you gave them?”

“Yeah, I’m sure, they’ll be fine. To maintain
stealth I need to fly slowly and gently, so this could be a long trip. I don’t
have any coloring books, you kids will have to entertain yourselves.”

“You are not going to sing to us?” Giraud’s
stupid, 
stupid
 mouth asked before his
brain could engage, and the three members of his team turned to look at him in
horror.

“Sadly, no, I’ll take a rain check on that. I am
superduper busy right now, and you and Smythe’s team are really not large
enough of an audience to appreciate my incredible talent. Now, as the bumper
sticker says: Get in, sit down, shut up and hang on.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTY TWO
With the Keepers securely sleeping and both
dropships still in stealth and now flying to rendezvous with the 
Flying Dutchman
, and the lizards aboard
the
 Spirit
 having no idea their
dropships had been captured, I was eager for the delicious moment of sending
that destroyer straight to hell. “Dropships are close enough?” I asked, and
Chang gave me a thumbs up from the CIC. “Great,” I wiggled in my seat because I
was so very much anticipating ridding the galaxy of one more ship full of
hateful warrior caste lizards. Although, it felt anticlimactic to have that
ship suddenly jump into the star with no warning. Maybe I should contact them
first, let them know exactly what was going to happen to them, and let them
know they had been outsmarted by a bunch of monkeys. Nah, that would be
indulging myself in useless-

“Joe, wait a minute, I have a question,” Skippy
cleared his throat like he was nervous.

“If your question is something like ‘what is the
capital of North Dakota’, then prepare to be disappointed, because I have no
idea.”

“No, you moron, 
ugh
. Like I would ask 
you

to remember facts. My question is about the moral dilemma we are facing. Yes,
that destroyer is packed full of hateful lizard MFers who all know and are
super enthused about deploying a bioweapon that could kill millions of humans
and hamsters on Paradise, perhaps other worlds also. Every member of that
ship’s crew is a fully committed murderous A-hole without an ounce of concern
for other species or even other Kristang from other clans.”

I looked through the glass into the CIC and
shared an unspoken ‘WTF?’ with Major Simms. “If you’re trying to convince me
killing that ship would create a moral dilemma, you are not exactly doing a
bang-up job of it, Skippy.”

“No, Ok, um. Hmmm. Maybe I should say it this
way; yes, the crew of that ship would wipe out every intelligent being on
Paradise without a second thought, and would happily dance on the graves of the
beings they killed. After composing an epic poem about the event, of course.
Oooh, maybe if they truly did exterminate the population of Paradise, those
Kristang would commission a tragic opera to commemorate their victory. Wow, now

that
 would be an interesting libretto
to write. I wonder-”

“Skippy?”

“Oh, sorry, got a little off the subject there.
Ok, here’s the important part. Those Kristang were raised in their overall
hateful society, and they all were trained and indoctrinated in the cruel
ethics of their warrior caste. So, should we consider the crew of that
destroyer are not completely to blame as individuals? Basically what I am
asking is, whether this is an appropriate time for me to try working on that
stupid empathy thing we talked about?”

“No, Skippy,” I answered without hesitation.
“This would be a 
terrible
 time for
you to try working up empathy with lizards.”

“Oh goodie! Whooo, 
that
 is a relief. This empathy thing sounds like a 
HUH-Yuuuge
 pain in the ass. All right
then, I’m ready to send those lizards on a one-way trip to hell.”

“Outstanding. Get the-”

“Hey, hey, Joe, Joe, wait wait!” Skippy almost
stuttered, he was so excited. “I have super awesome good news!”

“What is it?”

“I just realized that aboard that ship is an old
friend of yours. And a friend to Colonel Chang also.”

Chang in the CIC looked at me and I looked at
him and we both had completely blank expressions on our faces. Before we broke
out a Kristang jail, Chang and I barely knew each other, we had met only
briefly for our promotion ceremony, which for me was a publicity stunt. “A 
friend
? Oh, crap, you mean there is a
prisoner aboard that ship? Human or Ruhar?” My mind raced. Who the hell did
Chang and I both know, someone not aboard the 
Dutchman
? And, damn it, a prisoner aboard the ship could complicate
everything. Depending on who the prisoner was, I might have to pull in Major
Smythe to consider a rescue operation, or-Oh, shit, this could go south real
fast. I might have to negotiate with the damned lizards to release the
prisoner. What could I bargain with to-No, wait. Shit. No way could I ever
negotiate with the lizards aboard that ship, they knew our secret. I could not
risk the lives of humans on Earth and Paradise for one person no matter who it
was. In one split second, my thrilling anticipation of a successful operation
was blown, replaced by-

“Prisoner?” Skippy mercifully interrupted my
downward spiral of dark thoughts. “No prisoner, Joe. And not human or Ruhar.
Come on, work with me here, take a guess.”

Guess? I silently mouthed ‘I have no idea’ at
Chang, forgetting it was unfair asking him to guess at reading my lips in what
was not his native language. For a moment we stared at each other, dumfounded,
while the crew stared at both of us, equally mystified. “Not human, and not
Ruhar? A friend?” Who the hell did Chang and I both know, who was neither human
nor hamster, aboard a Kristang ship?

Then Chang and I both snapped our fingers at the
same time. “That drunk asshole on the space station?!” Chang asked before I
could speak.

“Ding ding ding ding! Winner, winner, chicken
dinner!” Skippy chuckled. “Yes, excellent guess, you two.”

“The promotion ceremony for Bishop, Colonel
Bishop and I,” Chang explained to the crew, “was aboard a space station above
Paradise. Most of the Kristang still couldn’t come down to the planet because
of the virus there, so we flew up to them. After the ceremony, the lizards
assigned one Kristang to give us a tour of the station while our leaders
discussed something with their leaders. That lizard took us to a viewport, got
drunk, and told us humans are nothing but worthless slaves and he wanted to
kill us all. Mister Skippy, 
that

Kristang is aboard the cruiser?”

“Not only aboard, he is presently captain of the
ship, though that doesn’t mean much right now, considering that he has no
control over any shipboard system.”

“Can we talk to him?” I asked while exchanging a
grin with Chang. “Video too?”

“Sure, Joe. The signal lag is only a third of a
second.” Instantly, the main displays in the bridge and CIC showed a view from
inside the enemy ship. I had been around enough Kristang that they no longer
all looked the same to me and I recognized my old friend Mister Asshole in the
center of the view, he was looking bored and pissed off at the same time. He
had no idea how pissed off he was about to be, and then he jerked as the
displays on his bridge all showed a view of 
us
.

“Hey!” I waved at the camera built into the
center of the bridge display. “Hey
 Buttwipe
,
do you remember us?”

Man, that lizard recovered quick from what had
to be a total shock. He went from utter astonishment to anger in record time, shouting
at the camera and shaking his fists until spittle flew from his mouth to
splatter the screen.

“Damn,” I laughed, “that is one pissed-off
lizard. Skippy, why can’t we hear the sound?”

“He is screaming insults too harsh for delicate
monkey ears to hear. I will translate for you. Hmm, bad word,” he reported
while the lizard howled and exhorted his crew to do something, anything. At
that moment, the crew of that ship were realizing to their horror that they had
no control over any system. “Another bad word, Jeez, he’s repeating himself.
Come on, put some effort into it, will ya? Ooooh, 
very
 bad word, now we’re getting somewhere,” Skippy chuckled.

I had to laugh along with the Merry Band of
Pirates, because that that point, Mister Asshole was so angry he was hopping up
and down, a tough thing to do in zero gravity. “Hey! Skippy, he can hear us,
right?”

“Yes, he can hear you. Now he is suggesting you
perform various sex acts on yourself. 
That

one is anatomically unlikely. And another, hmmm, anatomically impossible. Damn,”
Skippy giggled as the lizard pulled out a pistol and shot several of the
consoles on his ship because they weren’t responding to his crew. “He is
certainly one angry lizard.”

“My heart bleeds for him.”

“Empathy, Joe?”

“Sarcasm, Skippy. Hey,” I waved at the screen
then flashed both middle fingers. “It is 
so

good to see you after all this time, asshole. Yeah, I’m talking about you,
dickhead. Skippy, does he understand what I’m saying?”

“He certainly does, Joe, and he does recognize
you and Colonel Chang. The translation of ‘dickhead’ into Kristang is
considered a terrible insult. He is 
very

unhappy about the situation.”

“I figured that from the way he is foaming at
the mouth. What’s he saying now?”

“Oh, generic threats against you, the crew of
this ship, humanity in general, blah blah blah. Really, he’s not being
original, I am kind of disappointed. Oops, um, we need to move this along. He
just ordered his crew to manually detonate a missile warhead. I can slow them
down, but I can’t stop it.”

“Ok, time to wrap this up. You have their jump
drive prepped?”

“Yes, the command crew attempted to shut down
the jump drive when they saw the coordinates I input, but my bots isolated the
drive system from the rest of the ship. Ready when you are.”

Chang gave me a thumb’s up. “I will activate-”

“Belay that!” I barked and jabbed a finger
toward the CIC. Chang held up his
hands to show he was not touching any of the controls. “Sorry, Chang, I have a
reason for this. Sergeant Adams, get up here.” If I was a real professional
officer I should have said ‘report to the bridge’, but screw it. Everyone knew
what I meant.

“Here, Sir,” she announced from behind my chair.
Of course she had been in the corridor outside the bridge/CIC complex, as she
was part of the relief crew for the weapons consoles.

“Gunny, get into the CIC and jump that ship
straight to hell.”

“Sir?” She asked with a raised eyebrow. “Any of
the duty crew can do that.”

“Adams,” I lowered my voice so she had to lean
in to hear me. “Anyone 
could
 make
that ship jump, a monkey could press that button. There are a whole lot of
beings in this galaxy who are owed the pleasure of wiping out the warrior caste
MFers aboard that cruiser. It would be nice to know pressing that button gives 
one
 of us a small measure of payback.”

Margaret Adams didn’t say anything in reply, she
didn’t need to. I saw it in her eyes, the tough Gunnery Sergeant couldn’t hide
her feelings completely. She knew I understood what she needed, and she knew I
was never going to say anything about it, and that created a bond between us.
In that moment, the look she gave me said far more than anything either one of
us could have put into words. She straightened up, spun to the left and marched
into the CIC, relieving the Indian pilot on duty at the console.

“Everyone, let’s give our lizard friend a big
send-off from the Merry Band of Pirates,” and I flipped my middle finger at the
camera, followed by everyone else in view.

“Adios, motherfucker,” Adams muttered, and
pressed the appropriate button. On the display, the image cut out and was
replaced by black space with the distinct wobbling remnant of a jump wormhole
collapsing.

 

“Captain Giraud, I have good news, and 
great
 news!” Skippy’s mirthful voice
boomed in the paratroop leader’s helmet speakers.

“You found a cure for the pathogen?” Giraud
asked with excitement.

“Huh? No. Puh-
lease
, give me a freakin’ break, will ya? I haven’t even taken
samples from those infected losers yet. Yeah, they are expelling the pathogen
with every breath, it’s even in the hair and skin cells they shed, yuck.”

Giraud reflexively pulled his armor-gloved hand
away from the chair he had been holding onto, looking at the glove fingers. How
many microscopic bits of deadly binary bioweapon were coating his Kristang
suit? He did not want to think about it. The suits were supposedly airtight,
but he knew that was not entirely true, on long missions the suits lost a tiny
but measurable amount of air and moisture from leaks at the joints, a trade-off
between the suits being absolutely sealed and being flexible enough to be
useful in combat. Air and lubricants leaked 
out

of the suit, not in, according to Skippy who did not ever have to worry about
his bloodstream becoming contaminated by invisible killer chemical compounds.

“Relax, Renee,” Doctor Skippy the mad scientist
tried using his best soothing bedside voice, which was more creepy than
reassuring. “You and your team are in no danger. Get out your sample kits, I
need you to pull blood and tissues from these losers so I can get working ASAP.
Don’t worry, when you get back to the 
Dutchman
,
you will be put through a decontamination procedure more thorough than the
usual process. 
No
 organic material
will remain viable on the exterior of your suits, you can trust me about that.”

It bothered Giraud that the beer can aboard a
starship thirty thousand miles away had seen him jerk his hand away. “I am not
afraid, Skippy. I am concerned.”

“You 
are

afraid, because you are not stupid, Renee. If the pathogen gets loose aboard
the 
Dutchman
, and I can’t design and
manufacture a practical cure, you monkeys will be in big, huge, major trouble.
You do not need to worry, and I will explain every step of the enhanced decon
process as you go through it, 
non
?”

“Thank you, that will be very helpful. What is
your good news?” Giraud asked, irritated with himself for having lost focus in
an unsafe situation.

“The good news is, we jumped that 
Final Crushing Blow to the Enemy’s Spirit

into the local star. Well, heh heh, not quite
 into 
the star. More like just above the photosphere, so those
hateful MFers could experience a moment of pure pee-in-their-pants terror as a
solar flare rises up to burn them to a crisp. Hmm. Jumping ships into stars, or
planets, or just above so the crew lives long enough to know they are one
hundred percent, thoroughly 
skuh-reeewed

is kind of getting to be my signature move. Man, I should create a name for
that, so people will understand the implied awesomeness. Maybe I’ll simply call
it the ‘Skippy’, what do you think?” he began muttering to himself. “Yeah,
naming it after myself will let people know right away they can’t possibly
fully appreciate the awesomeness, but they-Oh, that won’t work. Stupid monkeys
never give me the credit I deserve. I work and slave away in the background,
and all monkeys see is the easy magic tricks I do. Ahh,” he sighed. “Greatness
is never appreciated like it should-”

“Skippy!” Giraud bit his lip to keep from
laughing. “That is good news. How long until the Ruhar detect the gamma ray
burst of the 
Spirit
 jumping?”

“What? Never. Ah, not 
never
. I have control of the central sensor detection grids in this
system, but there are isolated ships I was not able to infiltrate because the
speed of light is such a huge pain in the 
ass
.
Those ships will report their findings to the fleet authorities on Paradise,
and at that point, the code I wrote to suppress the sensor grid will have to
erase itself and cause a wide-spread glitch in the system, or the hamsters will
get suspicious. As it is, I expect a team of hamster code monkeys to be tearing
their fur out for weeks trying to understand how such a serious glitch could
have happened,” he chuckled gleefully. “Hee hee, I am 
such
 an asshole sometimes. Anyway, you have plenty of time to get
back to the 
Dutchman
, and for the
ship to jump safely away.”

“You have thought of everything. You are truly
the Emperor of Excellence.”

“For realz?” Skippy asked sharply. “That wasn’t
some sort of Napoleon joke?”

“For real. And we French do not joke about
Napoleon.”

“Oh, I should have known that. Thank you, Renee.”

“You are most welcome,” Giraud replied with
sincerity, grateful the Merry Band of Pirates did not have to worry about a
powerful and very pissed-off Kristang destroyer. “If that was your good news, I
cannot imagine your great news.”

“The great news is truly great! Now that destroyer
is not occupying a big part of my attention, I have time to sing with you. How
about a singalong, let’s start with the French classic ‘La vie en rose’. 
Des yeux qui font baisser les miens
,
come on, Renee, sing it with me!”

 

Because some Ruhar ship was sure to detect and
report the gamma ray burst of the 
Spirit

being jumped into hell, we couldn’t wait long before we jumped away also. We
got the two dropships aboard and secured quickly, then we prepared to jump
away, a long jump far outside the Paradise system.

Right before we jumped, I switched the main
bridge display to a feed from Ruhar satellites above Paradise, to get one last
look at that planet where over a hundred thousand humans were stranded. At
first, I wanted a view of areas I was familiar with, like the village of
Teskor, which had grown quite a bit since I was there. The Launcher complex at
the equator was under heavy cloud cover from the thunderstorms that swept in
every afternoon. I could have snuck a look at the Kristang jail where four of
us were held, or the warehouse where I found Skippy, or the logistics base
where we met Simms and Giraud, or even one of the maser projector sites that
had been reactivated by Perkins and her team. That would have been too much
nostalgia for me, bringing up memories and emotions I didn’t have time for
right then. So I set the display for a long-range view of the hemisphere that
included the continent of Lemuria, and just watched as the jump timer counted
down. This might be the last time I ever saw that mostly pleasant world, and I
stared fixated at the image, drinking in sunlight reflecting off the bright
blue seas, the white puffy cloud tops and the shadows they cast across dark
green forest and the lighter shades of meadows and rolling farmland.

“Penny for your thoughts,” Adams whispered from
beside my command chair.

“Ah,” I reached up to blot away a tear that was
forming at the corner of one eye, before I looked back and up at her. “A lot of
memories there.”

She squeezed my shoulder with one hand, an
intimate gesture that felt completely natural. Adams and I had put boots on the
ground there with UNEF, when we had dreams of being a bad-ass force that would
kick humanity’s enemy the Ruhar off the surface. Instead, we had been fumbling
peacekeepers, realizing too late we were fighting on the wrong side of the war.
Patrolling in the jungles of Nigeria had wiped away any silly boyish illusions
I had about military service, but Paradise is where I really grew up, I think.

Adams and I had been there, and we had been back
on the surface during the mission to help Perkins reactivate a network of maser
projectors. Adams and I had history there, a history that did not need any
words to express. I reached back and squeezed her hand, then she offered a fist
and I bumped it solemnly. “Those people,” she whispered, “think they’re cut off
from Earth forever. That human life on Earth may not exist anymore.”

“Yeah,” I breathed heavily. “If there were
anything we could do for them-”

“Someday,” she declared with fierce
determination. “No matter how long it takes. 
Semper
 Fidelis.”

“Never give up, never surrender?” I replied with
a ghost of a smile. The problem was the only way we could bring people from
Paradise to Earth was if our secret was exposed, at which point Earth might be
a cloud of loosely-organized rocks drifting around the Sun.

“Never give up,” she agreed. “Never surrender.”

Then we ejected a modified flight recorder buoy
and jumped outside the system. After we jumped, the buoy we left behind would
wait twenty minutes, in case a Ruhar ship jumped in to investigate our gamma
ray burst and the nearby one left by the 
Spirit
.
The buoy would then transmit a message that the ship the Ruhar had no doubt
detected burning up in the outer layer of the star, was the ship that tried to
bring infected Keepers to Paradise, and that mission was cancelled and over. The
buoy also contained a detailed chemical analysis of the pathogen Skippy had run
while the Keeper’s dropships were still in flight. That might help ease some of
the restrictions against humans on Paradise, but our people would not truly be
safe until we delivered a vaccine and cure, if Skippy could do that. The Ruhar
might not believe our message about destroying the 
Spirit
, because they didn’t know who we were and we couldn’t tell
them. Besides, just because we killed one ship of murderous assholes did not
mean the Ruhar were safe, some other group of Kristang could deliver the
bioweapon to Paradise, or wherever humans lived with Ruhar.

With that depressing thought, and the last image
of Paradise lingering in my retinas, I needed something to distract me from
seeing the display was now showing only empty interstellar space. Rising from
my chair, I announced “It’s time to meet those idiot Keepers. Gunny, you’re
with me.”

“Sir,” she did not move, blocking my way. “Much
as I’d love to slap those Keepers around, I don’t think it’s right.”

“Adams,” I cocked my head. “You don’t
understand. I’m not inviting you to give them a beat-down. I need you there to
make sure 
I
 don’t give them a
beat-down.”

 

The airlock cycled and I strode into the docking
bay, Adams right beside me. The two captured Dragon dropships were resting
securely in their cradles, without the usual umbilical cables hooked up, and with
their flight capability and weapon systems disabled. By disabled, I mean
physically we had removed any components that might create a danger to us, or
to the Keepers injuring themselves. I wanted the Keepers to not have a way to
hurt us, and I wanted them to know for certain they had 
no
 possibility of harming us or escaping, so they would not waste
time and effort defiantly and uselessly fighting back against us.

“Ready?” I asked Adams without turning to look
at her. We were wearing Kristang armored suits, sealed up to prevent us from becoming
infected. The docking bay was cut off from the rest of the ship, its air supply
and water being recycled independently. The only way in or out was through two secure
airlocks we controlled. One airlock lead to a chamber that scrubbed the
exterior of suits clean, with caustic chemicals, ferocious nanomachines and
flamethrowers. Anything organic on the surface of the suits, even in the tiny
gaps of joints, would be dissolved then burned to dust, while the suits would
only be mildly cooked. The assault teams led by Smythe and Giraud were going
through the decontamination chamber now, two of them at a time.

After the dropships were secured, Smythe had led
his people through the airlock, and Skippy released the zip-ties binding the
Keepers. A gentle stimulant gas was pumped into the dropship cabins, and soon
the Keepers were stirring, frightened, confused and angry. By the time I walked
over to stand between the back ramps of the dropships, the still somewhat
groggy Keepers had lowered the ramps and a half dozen of them were angrily
confronting the four armor-suited pirates who were pointing shotguns at them.
As I approached, one of the pirates saluted me, a gesture we usually dispensed
with aboard ship. “Colonel,” Lt. Williams acknowledged me, and I saluted him
back. The exterior of our Kristang powered armored suits had a chameleon
feature that could be manipulated by the wearer, or by Skippy. For our
encounter with the Keepers, my suit’s exterior had been modified to include
symbols for UNEF, the American flag, my eagle rank insignia, plus text spelling
out ‘US Army’ and my last name.

“Colonel?” One of the Keepers looked at me
suspiciously. They already knew we were humans wearing Kristang armor because
our faceplates were transparent. He stiffened and saluted me, announcing “I am
Colonel Chisolm, you are,” his eyes narrowed as he looked between my nametag
and my face, illuminated by lights rimming my faceplate. “Bishop? The Barney
guy?” He guessed with a mixture of shock and disgust. “You’re that publicity
stunt colonel from Paradise. Why are you

still
 wearing that rank insignia?”

That remark got me hot under the collar, or
helmet to be accurate. “
You’re
 a
colonel now?” I barked at him, my amplified voice booming in the docking bay.
“Last we heard, you were a captain. And you left the service, so you’re nothing
now. I should call you Colonel Goddamn Sanders, you chickenshit. You lost the
honor of wearing a uniform when you betrayed your own people.”

“You, wait,” Chisolm got a puzzled look that
overrode the redness of anger on his face. “You 
left
. You,” he snapped his fingers. “Yeah, you stole a Dodo and
left Paradise. We all thought you were dead.”

“Rumors of my death have been greatly
exaggerated,” I bit back a harsher reply.

“You’re still not a legit colonel,” he crossed
his arms and looked to his people, more of whom were recovered enough to
stumble down the back ramps. The Keepers nodded in agreement, clearly Chisolm
was the de facto leader of that group of fanatical idiots.

“
I

have a Thuranin starship,” I pointed to the deck. “And a dozen nukes. And a
cargo bay stuffed full of ship-killer missiles. And a team of Special
Operations troops and pilots under my command. 
My
 authority comes straight from UNEF Command on Earth.”

“Bullshit,” Chisolm retorted but his eyes
flickered with uncertainty.

“You’ve been to Earth?” Another Keeper asked in
a British accent, followed by a guilty look at Chisolm.

That is interesting, I thought. The bogus Keeper
colonel’s control of his team was not as secure as he pretended. Having the
team’s mission to Paradise intercepted by a group of lowly humans must have
shaken their confidence in him and themselves. I needed to remind myself that
these Keepers knew nothing about the Merry Band of Pirates and the status of
Earth, although would anything I said matter to them? In front of me were the
most fanatical of the Keepers, chosen for the mission to infect Paradise
because they could be trusted not to be change their minds when confronted with
reality on the ground. “Yes, we have. I have been back to Earth twice. Most of
this crew,” I gestured to Williams and his team, “never served on Paradise.”

“That’s true,” Williams added, his shotgun not
wavering. “I joined the ship at Earth. I have only been back once, but we’re on
our way home.’

“We are going home, 
after
,” I corrected him, “we confirm the lizard op to wipe out the
population of Paradise is over.”

“Excuse me, Colonel Bishop,” the British Keeper
stepped away from Chisolm, but not toward me or my people holding shotguns. Wisely,
he held his hands up away from his body. “We heard the wormhole back to Earth
was shut down, dormant.”

“That wormhole is not closed,” I announced,
prompting a gasp from the Keepers. They murmured among themselves while Adams
spoke over a private channel.

“Should you have told them that?” She asked with
a tone of reproach.

“One way or another, Gunny, they sure as hell
are never telling the outside galaxy about our secret. And the fact that we are
able to fly back to Earth will tell them that wormhole is not really dormant.”

“Good point, Sir,” she acknowledged.

“Joe,” Skippy whispered in my ear, “that British
guy is Lieutenant Nigel Green.”

I enabled my helmet speakers again. “You’re
Nigel Green?” I asked. The guy nodded with a glance at Chisolm. None of them
were wearing nametags or were carrying any form of identification. “Your family
back home is alive and well,” I recalled from the briefing packet Skippy
provided before the two dropships reached the 
Flying Dutchman
. From facial recognition, the beer can knew the
identity of the Keepers, and he fed into my earpiece details about their
families and friends on Earth. “Your sister Susan had a baby boy she named
Trevor after one of your grandfathers.”

“He’s lying, Green,” Chisolm warned. “Don’t
listen to him. You don’t have any proof, do you?” He said that last while
glaring at me.

“Joe,” Skippy whispered in my ear again, “I have
photos of the baby, but photos can be faked. It doesn’t matter anyway, these people
are true close-minded fanatics. Facts will not sway their minds because they
are desperately clinging to their beliefs, it is the only thing they have left.
You have to appeal to them emotionally.”

“I know that, Skippy, and you’re wrong. I don’t 
have
 to do anything for these idiots.”
Turning my external speakers back on, I addressed Green first. “I do have
proof, but you won’t believe it. The proof you 
will
 believe is when you see your nephew for yourself. As our SEALS
team leader,” I jerked a thumb at Williams, “said, we are headed home.”
Stepping forward, I got close enough to Chisolm to touch him. To his credit, he
didn’t flinch though I was taller and encased in a mech suit. “There are over a
hundred thousand humans stranded on Paradise. Loyal soldiers smartened up and
accepted the cold reality that we got suckered and used by the Kristang, that
we were fighting on the wrong side of the war. No!” I exclaimed as Chisolm
opened his mouth to protest. “You shut your mouth,” I followed that with a powered-armor
jab to his chest with an index finger. It knocked him back but only made him
angry. “The loyal troops on Paradise are stuck there, while 
you
, you traitorous,
 dumb
 motherfuckers get to go home. 
You
 are going home to Earth, 
you

get to see your families again. It makes me sick,” I said without exaggeration,
as I could taste bile rising in my throat and I had to blink away tears of
frustrated rage at the injustice. “I have friends on Paradise, good people who
will never get a chance to go to Earth and see their loved ones. It disgusts me
that your treason gives you a free ticket home. I would like to toss every one
of you traitors out an airlock, but I won’t do that,” I jabbed Chisolm in the
chest again. It had to hurt, and he was starting to react by taking small steps
backward. He knew he couldn’t hurt me or stop me from hurting him. I so much
wanted to do a Darth Vader move on Chisolm, hold him up off the deck by his
neck and squeeze with my powered gloves. “I

can’t
 do that, because I am a soldier and I follow a code of conduct.”

“Colonel,” Adams spoke aloud, reaching out a
hand to restrain my arm. Chisolm must have an angry bruise on his chest.

“Colonel Bishop,” Green called for my attention,
and I turned toward him. “You said something about an operation to wipe out the
population of Paradise? What operation?”

“Yours,” I stated simply. “That’s why you were
out there.”

“We,” Green’s eyes shifted rapidly between me
and Chisolm. “We weren’t doing that. Our mission was to infiltrate the planet,
to gather intelligence and prepare for the Kristang to retake the planet.”

I laughed bitterly. “The hamsters have a full
battlegroup based at Paradise now, and they’re building a Strategic Defense
network in orbit. After that SD net is complete, the Goddamned lizards will
have a hell of a fight to even get close to the surface. Besides, your lizard
friends are in a full-scale civil war, they didn’t tell you about that?” I
added as I saw Chisolm’s eyebrows lift in surprise. “Yeah, the lizards will happily
be busy killing each other for a decade, most likely. The real purpose of your
operation,” my focus was again on Green, “was to infect humans on Paradise, who
would spread the infection to the Ruhar. Your lizard masters planned to get
revenge on UNEF who broke away from their control, and they planned to make the
planet unable to support a battlegroup. If even a quarter of the hamsters there
died, the rest would be screaming for their government to get them away from
the planet, and no hamster would ever want to move to a diseased world. The
Ruhar government would need to quarantine the place, and they would pull back
their battlegroup.”

“He’s lying again,” Chisolm growled as his
people shuffled their feet and looked at him for reassurance. “We weren’t given
any weapons at all, we didn’t need them for our mission. We sure as hell were
not given any bioweapon.”

“Yes you were,” Adams stepped forward and poked
Chisolm in the chest, a bit harder than I had done. He was getting pissed about
it. “It’s in here,” she jabbed him again, hard enough that he took a stride
backward.

“You are all infected,” I explained. “That is
why we are sealed up in these suits, and why you will not be leaving this
docking bay, until we have a cure for you 
and

a vaccine for us.”

“Or until you die,” Adams stepped back away from
the red-faced Chisolm. “Data recovered from Camp Alpha indicates the incubation
period is about three months for humans.”

Now the Keepers all began to talk amongst
themselves. Hearing Adams reference Camp Alpha had struck a nerve. “What’s
wrong?” I asked the group. “Come on, some of you must have suspected you were
getting used,
 again
. The lizards
tested the pathogen on multiple groups. They had a control group that was never
infected, those people were taken off Camp Alpha by a Jeraptha ship, along with
a mixed human-Ruhar team.” I left out the participation of the Verd-Kris to
avoid confusing the issue. “Groups of people would be separated, taken away
from the base, and you’d never see them again?” I could see that got a reaction.
“At least some of you idiots must have suspected something wasn’t right.
Seriously?” I mocked them. “You really thought the Kristang needed 
you
 provide intel about Paradise? Think
about it, 
think
. It would not be too
long before one of you got recognized and the hamsters figured out that Keepers
who left had somehow come back to the planet.”

“That’s not true,” Chisolm waved his hands
frantically to calm his people down. “We were trained to-”

“Trained to what? The hamsters have your DNA, even
UNEF has your DNA in a file somewhere. You were going to get caught eventually.
A month, maybe two months you could sneak around before somebody asked the
wrong questions. Ah, forget it,” I waved a hand in disgust. “If you are stupid
enough to believe the Kristang war fleet needs 
you
 to take back control of the planet, then you are way too stupid
to ever see reality.”

“Um, Joe, there is an unpleasant surprise I just
discovered,” Skippy broke into the conversation. “It seems the Kristang did not
entirely trust the crew of knuckleheads they sent on this mission. I have 
no
 idea why, as I can tell these fools
are totally trustworthy. Not! Anywho, the Kristang were concerned the Twenty
Stooges here would blab their mouths to someone on Paradise and expose the
mission. These Keepers would die eventually, of course, but that would take
months, and the Kristang did not need them to live for more than a month. One
month would be plenty of time for them to infect plenty of unsuspecting
victims, people who could move around a lot more freely and spread the pathogen
widely. As a precaution, the Kristang injected each one of them with an implant
that will all activate at the exact same time, about twenty eight days from
their scheduled landing. This implant will burst blood vessels in their brains,
so they will all drop dead instantly of massive aneurysms. The implants are
timed to kill them all at the exact same moment, so one of these fools doesn’t
see his buddy drop dead and start shooting his mouth off before the implant
kills him.”

“Where are these implants?” I took a half-step
back, subconsciously afraid of getting killed by proxy.

“Like the suicide dots our away teams wear, the
implants are at the back of the neck, near the brain stem. Our nanodots kill
the wearer by electrical impulse, they are worn on the skin, they can be
removed easily, and of course the wearer knows about them and decides whether
to activate the suicide mechanism. The implants given to the Keepers were
inserted under the skin, and nanofibers spread along blood vessels to several
places in their brains.”

“Can you turn them off, get rid of them, something
like that?”

“Oh, I already postponed the activation sequence.
But I can’t guarantee there won’t be a glitch so to be safe, they need to be
physically removed. That can be accomplished easily enough, I will send in
nanobots to disable and dissolve the Kristang implants.”

“Ok, we can do that when we-”

“You are not touching me with any of your Goddamned
machines,” Chisolm growled. “We 
do

know about those implants, the Kristang explained why they are needed and we
all agreed to have them. You’re lying, the implants aren’t dangerous to us,
they are beacons so the Kristang can locate us when our mission is complete.
Without the implants, we might mistakenly be targeted during a raid, before the
planet is taken back from the hamsters. The implants will pinpoint our location,
so we can be evaced by stealth dropships when the Kristang are satisfied with
the take from our intel.”

“Wow,” Skippy’s voice rang from the speakers.
“That is a truly sterling example of self-delusion. Hey asswipe, you 
know
 that isn’t true. You morons are
disposable to the Kristang, no way would they risk sending a stealthed dropship
down to pick up you losers. Seriously, you expect them to fly around
willy-nilly to pick up all of you?”

“No, we will get a signal to gather in a
pre-arranged, remote location,” Chisolm glared at me. “That minimizes the risk
of-”

“Oh, you have 
got

to be kidding me,” Skippy’s voice dripped with sarcasm. “Why would-”

I cut off Skippy’s disgusted comment before we
wasted too much time on an irrelevant discussion. “As you reminded me, never
argue with an idiot, because they can’t understand when they’ve lost. Fine,” I
pointed to Chisolm, “you can keep your implants, and we will even reset the
timer back to its original setting. But, anyone who does 
not
 get their implants disabled will be isolated so you can’t harm
anyone else until you drop dead, got that?”

That prompted a huddle around Chisolm by several
Keepers, with low voices and a lot of animated hand gestures. I politely did
not eavesdrop on the argument. Ok, so it was not me being polite, I just did
not want to listen to a bunch of fanatical dipshits trying to make a totally
obvious decision. After two minutes, Chisolm stepped forward. “Colonel Bishop,”
I could see referring to me as a colonel felt sour in his mouth, “we agree to
have the implants disabled, therefore you have no excuse to isolate any of us,”
he smirked as if he had just foiled an evil plot. “We are one team and we will
remain strong together. Also, it appears a locator beacon will not do us any
good now, you could easily block the transmission.” My guess was he added that
last part as a way to save face in front of his people.

I truly did not care whether his people
respected him or not. “Fine,” I snapped. “Here’s what’s going to happen. We are
going to take samples of your blood and tissues,” Mad Doctor Skippy had been
vague about how invasive and painful the sample collection process would be,
and I truly did not care. “You are going to cooperate and live here,” I
gestured to the portable shelters we had set up along the inner bulkhead of the
docking bay, “until we have a cure, or until you die as the pathogen runs its
course. We will not risk you infecting us or contaminating the rest of the
ship, because we 
are
 going home, and
UNEF Command won’t let us off the ship if they think we might be carriers. I
will now leave you to the kind tenderness of Gunnery Sergeant Adams,” I nodded
toward her “She will explain in detail your living arrangements and 
exactly
 how you will be cooperating.
Keep this in mind,” I scowled from one face to the next. “We need samples of
the pathogen to develop a cure, and we need subjects to test a cure. We do not
need 
all
 of you for the procedure to
be successful. Sergeant Adams,” she came to attention. “I figure we need maybe
ten out of twenty of these losers, max. If they give you any shit, you have my
permission to break bones. If any of them give you serious trouble, I am 
ordering
 you to toss them out an
airlock, with this asshole,” I pointed straight at Chisolm, “going first. In
case any of you geniuses thinks Gunny Adams won’t do it, here’s a breaking news
flash for you. That Kristang destroyer that brought you here? It is not coming
to rescue you, because we took control and jumped it just above the surface of
the star, where those brave warriors had a few seconds to cry and piss in their
pants before they got swallowed up by a fireball. Adams here pressed the button
to jump those lizards straight into hell. Do 
not
 piss her off. Or,” I smiled with my mouth but not my eyes, “do
it. 
Please
. One of you, try it. Make
my day.”

There weren’t any takers for my dare. No matter
how fanatical they were, they were badly shaken up by their shocking sudden
change of circumstances, and by what I had told them. Even Chisolm cooperated,
though he told his people to cooperate only so they could live to fight another
day, fight for the Kristang. I did not care what he told them. Mad Doctor
Skippy got his samples and began doing, whatever it was Skippy did.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTY THREE
Two days later, I saw Adams in the galley. “How
are our guests enjoying their luxury accommodations?”

She gave a long, exaggerated sigh, making sort
of motor boat sound with her lips. For a moment I just stared at her, because I
never imagined her doing something like that. There were so many layers to our
tough Gunnery Sergeant, she was like an onion wrapped in an onion. A sweet
onion, like a, what are they called? Not Valvoline, that’s a motor oil. Not
Viagra either. Something with a V? Vidalia, that’s it! A Vidalia onion, not a
sour one that makes you cry. Although, Adams could make you cry if she wanted
to. Despite the years we had served together, I barely knew her, the real
Margaret Adams. That was maybe my one major regret, that—

Uh, I’d better drop
 that
 subject like a hot potato.

Anyway, she sounded exasperated and disgusted.
“Sir, I have to talk to you about that. I don’t want to, but I’m kind of
required to by the UCMJ.”

“The Uniform Code of Military Justice?” Holy
shit, I told myself, this could not be good. If Adams had seen fit to toss one
of the Keepers out an airlock. I was Ok with that, but expected she would have
notified me about it first. She should have immediately notified me about any
serious incident, and, again, holy shit! Anything involving the UCMJ was no
joke. “Uh, what?”

“It’s nothing serious, Sir,” she must have seen
the deer-in-the-headlights look on my face. “Some of them, that Chisolm guy
mostly, have been complaining about their treatment. One of them is a barracks
lawyer, he cited sections of the Geneva Convention at me.”

“The Geneva freakin’ Convention?” I was
astonished. “Like that matters out here?” Actually, crap, it might. The Keepers
were humans, and our mission was under the authority of UNEF Command. So, damn
it, maybe it did matter. Oh, hell, I needed to ask Skippy, he knew all that
legal stuff.

“That’s above my pay grade, Colonel,” she raised
an eyebrow, having just successfully passed that particular buck to me.
“Consider yourself officially notified, Sir,” she added with a twinkle in her
eyes. I loved to see Adams smile, it lit up her whole face.

“Gunny, I would 
love
 to give a shit about whether those Goddamn Keeper traitors are
happy about their living situation.”

“I am guessing you don’t?”

“Sadly, my shit-giving ability is currently
offline, and it don’t look good for getting it fixed any time soon,” I winked
at her.

“What should I tell the Keepers? They demanded
to meet with you, to present a list of grievances.”

“Grievanc-” I clamped my jaw shut to control my
anger. “Tell that barracks lawyer I have him penciled in to meet with me at
Punch-him-in-the-face O’clock, but if he would prefer Kick-in-the-balls Thirty,
that’s good for me too.”

“I don’t think any of those cowards have balls,
Sir.”

“Punchin-the-face O’Clock it is, then. Tell him
he can meet me in the airlock, I’ll give him a tour of the ship, from the 
outside
. It will be a short tour, before
his eyeballs explode from vacuum. Seriously, Adams, if that particular shithead
were to suffer a terribly unfortunate accident involving powered armor and
several vital organs, I would not be unhappy, if you know what I mean.”

“I know what you mean, Sir.”

I do not know what Adams did, if anything, but I
did not get any more complaints from the Keepers. That I know of. Not that I
asked, if you know what I mean.

 

While we waited for Skippy to magically create a
vaccine or cure for the bioweapon, I tried to keep the crew’s spirits up by
requesting people to create lists like what favorite food they would eat when
we got back to Earth, what places they wanted to visit during the leave they
would be granted after debriefing, happy stuff like that. One thing I did 
not
 do was ask about the family and
friends people were looking forward to reconnecting with, because thinking
about how long we had been away from our loved ones was bound to be painful,
and exactly the opposite of the happy morale boost I was hoping for.

It did not surprise me that while I was looking
forward to finally seeing home again, our high-speed SpecOps warriors and
hotshot pilots had mixed feelings about it. Major Smythe openly told me he
would miss the adrenaline rush of combat, and just never knowing what
gut-wrenching crisis we would be dealing with the next day. All of the SpecOps
teams worried they would be trapped dirtside after this mission, as their
national militaries would want at least some of them to stay home, to transfer
their knowledge and train other troops in space combat techniques. The pilots
were worried about having to fly slow, boring aircraft and helicopters again,
and never even getting above low Earth orbit. There wasn’t anything I could say
to soothe their fears, as I had no idea what UNEF Command planned to do with
the crew once we landed on our home planet.

There was another person aboard the ship, not
technically a member of the crew, who had seriously mixed feelings about going
home. Hans Chotek was worried about UNEF Command’s reaction to how long we had
been away, on what was supposed to be a simple and short mission. Yes, we had successfully
confirmed the Thuranin were not sending another surveyor ship to Earth. And
yes, we had stopped the Ruhar from sending a ship, paid for by the Kristang.
Those were both major items in the plus column for sure. Even our having saved
the human population of Paradise, twice, hopefully counted as wins. But we had
also risked exposure on Paradise two times, Ok, technically three times. And
our beer can had proven to have judgment as trustworthy as a meth addict with a
pocketful of stolen credit cards. We nearly got trapped by a task force of
combined Thuranin, Bosphuraq and oh, yeah, don’t forget Maxolhx ships. We 
broke
 an Elder wormhole! We had messed
with a freakin’ Elder sentinel killing machine. It was almost not worth
mentioning that we engaged in combat with a Maxolhx warship, and that a Maxolhx
had committed suicide aboard our ship. All that bad or at least risky stuff
happened on Hans Chotek’s watch. All of which he expected to catch hell about
from chair-bound bureaucrats when we got home.

And all of which did not compare to the fact
that career diplomat Hans Chotek 
started
an alien civil war
. I almost felt sorry for the guy. Srcatch that, I did
feel sorry for him.

There was another person I felt sorry for:
myself. UNEF Command had not wanted me as captain of, or even aboard, the 
Flying Dutchman
 the last time we left
Earth. They viewed me as too young and too prone to take risks before. They
were going to be just 
thrilled
 to
hear what trouble I had gotten us into this time. My stomach got queasy every
time I thought of the major ass-chewing I would get as soon as my boots hit the
ground.

Anyway, to keep my mind off the fate that awaited
me on Earth, I took our enforced idleness as an opportunity to ask Skippy about
something. My hope was I could bring some good news home to UNEF Command, and
maybe they’d forget about all that other shit. Which was never going to happen,
but I figured I should give the self-delusion thing a try. “Hey, Skippy.”

“Hey, Joe. What do you propose to waste my time
with now?”

“How do you know that I’m going to-Oh, forget it.
I have a question. Now that you are the new, better-than-ever, ‘fresh scent’
Skippy-”

“Fresh 
scent
?
I do not have a scent. Or do I?” He gasped in shuddering horror. “I have never
asked you if-”

“No, no, Skippy, don’t worry about it. I just
meant that ‘fresh scent’ is something marketing people say when they describe
an improved product.”

“Hmmm. Did this product previously smell like
rotten fish?”

“Well, in that case, ‘fresh scent’ would be a big improvement,
right?”

“I can’t argue with that. The way I would describe
myself is ‘More Awesome Than Ever’.”

“How about ‘Fifty Percent More Awesome For The
Same Price’?”

“I like your thinking. Anywho, what is your
question?”

“Can the new Awesome-Beyond-Imagination Skippy
share even a tiny bit of technology with us poor monkeys soon, like when we get
to Earth? You said you were working on that, after you rearranged your sock
drawers or whatever you do in there.”

“Ugh. Why do I ever try explaining technology to
you? Ok, at your pathetic level of development, rearranging my sock drawer is
an appropriate, bacteria-level understanding of the mind-bogglingly
incredible-”

“Yeah, blah blah blah, you’re awesome. Listen, has
rewriting your internal software loosened your restrictions yet? The annoying
subroutines or whatever that prevent you from flying ships by yourself, sharing
technology with us, all that?”

“Not yet, Joe,” he scolded me. “I 
told
 you, I am working on it. Damn, I
should never have mentioned that possibility to you. I. Do. Not. 
Know
 yet, you dumdum. Rewriting my
software, which is a bad analogy that makes you think the task is much easier
than it truly is, has proved to be an extremely delicate problem. I am having
to create sort of a model of myself, so I can test changes in a controlled
environment, instead of taking the risk of damaging myself. If I screw
something up, I might be unable to undo the damage, and then we would be right
back to my operating at reduced, perhaps severely reduced capacity. Would you
like me to take that risk?”

“No! No, I very much did not like it when you were
acting drunk or high or brain-damaged or whatever was wrong with you. The last
thing I need is you waking me up at Zero Dark Thirty to marvel at the freakin’
universe. You, uh, take all the time you need to get that sock drawer squared
away, and I’ll keep my mouth shut.”

“Riiiiiiiiiight. Because you are 
so
 good at being patient. When,
 if
, I am able to share my
galaxy-spanning knowledge of physics, what are you hoping for?”

“Oh, uh,” now I was embarrassed, but I had to ask.
“You know, you help us build our own starships. Bad-ass warships, not like this
piece of crap we’re flying.”

“What?” He chuckled. No, he snickered, that’s a
better way of describing it. “No, Joe, we will not be doing any science-fiction
shit like that. I told you before, just bringing Earth’s industrial
infrastructure up to the point where humans can build the machines, just to
build the machines we need to build other machines to begin constructing a
single starship, will take well over a hundred years, 
if 
nothing goes wrong.”

“Ayuh, and I told you humanity doesn’t have any
other appointments over the next couple hundred years. We should get started,
pronto.”

“Ugh. Joe, you can forget any nonsense about a
single planet of monkeys building a warfleet to take on the whole freakin’
galaxy.”

“Listen, Skippy, I know the hostile aliens out
there have thousands-”

“
Hundreds

of thousands, Joe. The Maxolhx coalition alone could easily mobilize thirty
thousand warships to throw against Earth, and they would not be straining their
resources.”

“That’s a lot of ships, sure. But we don’t need to
take the fight to the enemy. All we need to have is a defense strong enough
that the enemy doesn’t want to pay the price of hitting us. With your help,
your knowledge of Elder-level technology, couldn’t we build a strong defense in
say, a couple hundred years? Assuming we can keep nosy aliens away from Earth
that long?”

“Uh huh, uh huh, that is all a great fantasy,
Joey. Except for the teensy weensy little fact that you do not have even a
hundred years to get started. The clock is ticking down to Doomsday, no matter
what you do.”

“Like I said, assume we can keep aliens from
coming to Earth. We’ve been doing a pretty good job at keeping them away so
far.” As I said that, I mentally pictured karma chuckling as it got ready to
bite me on the ass.

“The problem is not simply aliens flying to Earth.
The problem, Joe, is the speed of light.”

“Uh, what?”

“Speed. Of. Light. You dumdum.”

“I got the dumdum part. What does the speed of li-Ohhhhh 
shit
.”

“Wow, that time I actually saw the 40 watt bulb of
understanding light up in your head. It’s a dim bulb, barely visible, like if
it was buried under thirty feet of mud and-”

“You’re saying light from Earth is radiating
outward, and no matter what we do, that light will be seen out in the galaxy?
The problem is radio waves?”

“Correct. You monkeys could not resist blabbing
your mouths off after we, or actually I, destroyed the Kristang who were
enslaving your planet. Your news programs broadcast reports and images of the 
Flying Dutchman
 in orbit, and Kristang
sites getting blown up all over your planet. Even without radio and TV signals,
the gamma ray bursts of us jumping in and out, and from when I jumped that
Kristang frigate into your sun, are going to be visible and will be considered
highly suspicious.”

“Crap. Ok, so those radio and TV waves and gamma rays
will be detected by some hostile alien’s telescope or sensor platform. Give me
the bad news, how close is the nearest alien listening post or telescope or
whatever?”

“The closest such sensor platform to Earth is two
hundred ninety four lightyears.”

“Oh.” I breathed a sigh of relief. “Damn, Skippy,
you got me into a panic for nothing. We have almost three hundred, no, wait.
It’s been a couple years since the 
Dutchman

first jumped into Earth orbit, so-”

“Signals traveling from 
Earth
 are not the problem, dumdum,” Skippy chided me more gently
than he usually did when I said something stupid.

“No? Then what-” Most of the time, my brain was
annoyingly slow, just like Skippy said. This time, however, I got it right
away. “Oh, shit. The problem isn’t gamma rays coming from Earth. The problem is
gamma rays every time you reopen that wormhole that is supposed to be dormant.”

“
Egg
-zactly,
Joe, very good! That time I was not belittling your intelligence, you caught on
quickly. Hmmm, maybe being around me has smartened you up a bit. Yes, that
Elder wormhole is supposed to be shut down, but we have used it three times
since then. Outbound and return on our second mission. Plus outbound on this
current mission that has lasted way longer than anyone expected. We will be
using that wormhole again to get back to Earth, and outbound for our next
mission. Whenever we use that mostly-dormant wormhole, I open it in a location
far away from its original programmed pattern. But someone is going to notice
gamma rays coming from a wormhole that is supposed to be inactive. They are
going to notice multiple gamma rays events, at odd intervals, and that is going
to look very suspicious.”

“Tell me the bad news, Skippy. How close is an
alien sensor platform to the far end of that wormhole?”

“Sixty two lightyears, Joe. 
That
 is why I have been telling you we do not have time to enhance
Earth’s infrastructure and build a bodaciously awesome war fleet, or a Death
Star or something stupid like that.”

“We only have sixty two years?”

“Less than sixty years, since the first time we
used that wormhole after I shut it down. Those gamma rays have been radiating
outward, and there is nothing we can do to stop them.”

In sixty years, human technology had gone from the
first powered flight by the Wright brothers to jet airliners. Could we- “Wait!
How about this: we fly out to this alien sensor platform,” in my mind, I
pictured a single satellite hanging in space all by itself. “And you hack into
it and tell it to ignore those gamma rays?”

“Uh, no, Joe. There is not ‘
a
’ sensor platform. Sixty two lightyears from the far end of that
wormhole is a Thuranin planet with a fleet servicing base. Even if the ships
there have their entire sensor suite powered down for maintenance, there are
hundreds of other sensors in orbit and on the surface that could pick up those
gamma rays.”

“Ok, but-”

“
But
,
you are thinking the magic of Skippy could hack into every system on and around
that planet, right? Fuggetaboutit. Joe, there have been multiple gamma ray
events, because we used that wormhole multiple times. Sensor systems get
regular updates, so I would need to keep going back there to hack in, every
time a gamma ray burst is about to pass through that system. Expanding a bubble
outward from that wormhole, there is another inhabited star system sixty five
lightyears away, two systems that are seventy lightyears away, and if you go
out to an eighty lightyear radius, there are 
fourteen
 star systems that could detect those gamma rays. It is
just not practical to conceal all those gamma rays from enemy eyes, Joe. I am
sorry.”

“Well, shit. What could we accomplish in sixty
years, if we tried really hard?”

“Uh, hmmm. You could make a really big white flag
that says ‘We surrender’?”

“Oh, shit.”

“You could also do a lot of praying, and, hey!
Maybe you could bake a cake for the aliens who come to invade and obliterate
your homeworld. It would have to be a really 
nice
 cake.”

“Not funny, Skippy.”

“There is absolutely nothing amusing about the
situation, Joe. I also do not see any way out of this mess. But, I’m not
worried about it.”

“You are 
not
worried
 about it? That is a rotten thing to say, Skippy. Just because you
are not personally in danger, we-”

“Joe, I am not worried about it, because I am sure
you monkeys will think of something. You are quite clever.”

“Oh.” I was ashamed of myself for thinking Skippy
was heartless about the prospect of my home world being blown up. “Thanks for
the vote of-”

“If not, you are 
totally
 screwed. Like, every starfaring species in the galaxy
descending on your planet and tearing the place apart. Then probably nuking it
until it is a radioactive cinder. Although, that’s probably the 
best
-case scenario.”

“Shit.”

“Shit, indeed.”

“Damn it! You’re telling me all the work we’ve
done out here, stopping aliens from sending ships to Earth, has been for 
nothing
?”

“Not nothing, Joe. We have been buying time. Come
on, Joe, nothing lasts forever. Giving the people of Earth another sixty years
of pleasantly blissful ignorance is a worthy goal. Just think of how many
people will fall in love over the next sixty years, how many people will
achieve their life goals, how much happiness the population of Earth can
experience in sixty years.”

“I had not thought of it that way, Skippy. I guess
buying time is worth our effort.”

“Yup. Before, you know, Earth inevitably becomes a
lifeless ball of dust.”

“Skippy, if I ever ask you to cheer me up, please
remind me of this conversation.”

“Oh, no problemo, Joe. Glad we had this little
talk, if it makes you feel better about the inevitable extinction of your
species. See? I am
 totally
 nailing
this empathy shit.”

I had been hoping I could tell UNEF Command that
the whole scary year of agony we had gone through with Skippy’s fight with the
worm was worth it, because the new improved Skippy could share advanced
technology with us, and Earth could build a bad-ass war fleet to protect us
from an entire galaxy of hostile aliens. Instead, I would be telling them that humanity
not only didn’t have time to build a single starship of our own, our entire
species had less than sixty years to live.

Maybe I better order a 
super
 nice fruit basket to soften the blow, when I deliver that steaming
pile of news.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTY FOUR
Skippy had warned me that just identifying the
elements of the pathogen, and how precisely it sneakily used human DNA to
create itself and replicate, could take a while. Like, possibly weeks in
meatsack time, if he could do it at all. He needed to not only find the
weapon’s components in the blood and tissues of infected people, he needed to
match them to the data recovered by the Mavericks, then run exhaustive tests to
make sure the pathogen had not already mutated beyond recognition. If it had
mutated substantially, he would need to start over. He did not sound
optimistic, even when I told him the Merry Band of Pirates were all-in on
trusting the awesomeness this time. “Bioweapons are not my wheelhouse, Joe,” he
had grumbled irritably after the first set of samples were placed into the lab
we set up in a corner of the docking bay. “And the medical equipment aboard
this secondhand Frankenship is not the best to work with. Be patient.”

Thus, I was rather depressed about the
possibility we would not find a cure, and therefore the human population of
Paradise would continue to be at high risk. When we jumped away, we targeted to
be within two lighthours of a Ruhar communications relay station, within its
line-of-sight narrowcasting cone pointed toward Paradise. Skippy was able to
monitor message traffic dropped off by passing starships, and from encrypted
traffic we knew the Ruhar federal government was coming under increasing
pressure to ‘do something’ about the risk posed by humans on Paradise. Most of
that pressure was, ironically, not coming from Paradise, but from other Ruhar
worlds who feared an infection spreading to them. All ship traffic to and from
the Paradise system was embargoed, nothing in and nothing out. Of the hamsters
on Paradise clamoring for extreme action to be taken to remove the human
threat, most were recent arrivals. A great majority of long-time inhabitants,
even those who lived through UNEF’s brief and bumbling occupation, were against
any attempt to relieve the threat by killing all the humans, although no one
argued against a strictly-enforced quarantine.

The Ruhar had appealed to the Jeraptha, who
agreed to examine the data taken from Camp Alpha. Regrettably, the Jeraptha
announced that type of bioweapon was unknown to them, and their research could
not proceed far without samples of the actual pathogen. The patron species of
the Ruhar also warned that, according to their preliminary studies, the
pathogen was a very, 
very
 clever
bioweapon, as it could plausibly be a natural mutation of human DNA. An
unlikely mutation, but difficult to prove as a violation of The Rules. The
beetles assured the Ruhar they had mentioned the incident to the Rindhalu, who
responded that they would investigate the incident 
if
 there was an actual outbreak on Paradise, and even in that case,
the next meeting of the Rindhalu council to launch an investigation would not
be for another three and a half years. Any actual investigation would not begin
for another five to eight years, after a proper time for deliberation. Those
who knew the Rindhalu well were amazed and impressed the spiders were acting so
quickly, a sign the senior species was taking the bioweapon threat seriously.

Anyway, I mention all that to demonstrate that
we basically were on our own in trying to find a cure and vaccine for the
deadly pathogen. The Ruhar lacked the technology and understanding to even
identify the pathogen’s base components in an infected human or Ruhar. The
beetles were treating the incident as an unexpected and exciting opportunity to
wager on how many intelligent beings would die on Paradise. No, that was unfair
of me to say that. Of course the Jeraptha could not resist such juicy action,
and they promised to help enforce the embargo around Paradise and hunt for a
Kristang ship, but the recent attacks by the Bosphuraq had caught the beetles
off-guard and they were scrambling to redeploy their fleet. And the
all-powerful ancient Rindhalu? Well, they might consider considering the
problem, if it became an actual problem. The Rindhalu could never be described
as a hasty species. 
Ents
 moved
faster. So do glaciers.

Knowing all that, you can understand why I was
not sleeping well, and why I was mostly awake and tossing and turning in my
bunk at 0123 Hours when Skippy’s avatar shimmered to life above my chest. “Joe!
Joe!”

“
Gaaa
!
What the hell, Skippy?” I sputtered with a dry mouth.

“I have good new- 
Oooooh
, wow, you do not look so good right when you wake up. I
mean, you are a monkey so I know not to expect much, but 
day-umn
, dude.”

“Yeah, I’m real concerned about how I look at
zero dark thirty. What is it?”

“Joe, seriously, you should reconsider rejecting
that sexbot, I should say, 
companion

I built for you. She wouldn’t mind how you look in the wee hours of the
morning, I can’t imagine a real human woman not being totally 
horrified
 by-”

“That bot was an 
it
, not a she, Skippy. Please, tell me your good news, or I am
throwing a pillow over my head and going back to sleep.”

“Ok, Ok. Damn, this is the thanks I get for
being your wingman-”

“Skippy!”

“Fine. The good news is I have created what I
believe is a cure for the pathogen. And vaccines not only for humans, but for
Ruhar also.”

“Holy shit.” I sat bolt upright in bed, so of
course I whacked my head. With news that good, I ignore the pain. “You said it
could take weeks, maybe months, if it could be done at all.”

“Joe, I underestimated my own magnificence.”

“Uh huh, right. Did you pull a Scotty on us?”

“A Scotty?” He asked innocently, with his voice
just a touch 
too
 innocent.

“Yeah, like, you say that fixing the warp
engines will take six hours and a miracle, and you have the job done in thirty
minutes?”

“Oh, ha ha,” snickered. “That’s a good one, I’ll
have to remember that. No, I did not do that, Joe. Truly, if anything, I 
under
stated the difficulty of the
effort. When I first examined the pathogen components, the subroutine I
assigned to the task wanted to curl up in a ball and cry. It was, as you New
Englanders would say, 
wicked hahd
.”

“Ok, so what changed?”

“I decided that approaching the task as a
biological problem was not going to lead me anywhere. So, I looked at human DNA
as an information storage and processing system.”

“Uh, what?”

“Joe, DNA is not just a bunch of colored balls
connected by sticks like in your high school science lab. It is a powerful
chemical-based data storage system, quite efficient for its size. It is also a
handy factory for churning out organic chemicals, which is how the Kristang
were able to use modified DNA to create the prion base components. The cure I
have created is pure genius, even I am amazed by my awesomeness this time. This
cure not only prevents the infected person’s DNA from replicating more of the
base components, it acts as a monitoring and repair mechanism for DNA, to
prevent harmful mutations. To a limited extent, of course, if a person gets a
bad dose of radiation, their DNA will be damaged beyond any self-repair
capability my cure can provide.”

“Excellent! Outstanding! And a vaccine, too?”

“As you would say, ‘
Ayuh
’.” It did not sound right when Skippy said it, but I didn’t
protest. “The cure and the vaccine are the same mechanism. Well, mostly. The
vaccine is part of the cure. The vaccine will prevent a person from becoming
infected, and it can stop an infected person’s DNA from making more of the
pathogen. The cure has a second element that latches onto one base component of
the prion, so it can never assemble into anything dangerous. After a while, my
guess is four to six months, the base components will dissolve on their own.
The vaccine I developed for the Ruhar is much simpler, as the
genetically-enhanced biology of that species has a vastly superior immune
response. All my vaccine does is allow the Ruhar version of DNA to create sort
of antibodies to identify the pathogen components, and the hamster immune
system will take care of the rest.”

“Skippy, this is truly awesome. When can you
begin testing?”

“I left a message for Sergeant Adams to schedule
it for 0800 this morning, after the Keepers wake up.”

“Oh, 
skuh-REW

that. Hell, I’m up. We’re doing it 
now
,
if you have doses of the cure ready.”

“I have been manufacturing the cure, within the
hour I will have enough doses for four people. Are you sure about rousing
people out of bed at this ungodly hour?” He asked cluelessly, after having
roused 
me
 out of bed.

“We have been away from Earth way too freakin’
long,” I did not mention a good part of that time was because of his battle
with the worm. “And every minute that goes by, there could be a dangerous
incident on Paradise that might put people, 
humans
,
there in danger. Some hamster kid gets the sniffles, the parents remember the
kid came into contact with a human last month, and next thing you know there is
a full-blown panic with frightened hamster civilians chasing humans with
pitchforks and torches. Or hitting them with SD maser cannons from orbit. So,
 hell
 no, I am not waiting another six
hours just so those Keeper assholes can get a couple more hours of sleep and a
nice breakfast. I will call Adams, you get all your mad doctor stuff ready.”

 

The Keepers did not like being rousted from bed
four hours early. As former military, they also were used to it and did not
complain too much. We got four volunteers for testing the cure, including the
British soldier Nigel Green. Unlike Chisolm, Green was more of a scared,
vulnerable and gullible kid rather than a truly committed fanatic. Chisolm
caused trouble, shouting warnings that they were not infected, that the
supposed ‘cure’ was in fact a bioweapon we were testing on them, and that-We
never got to hear the end of Chisolm’s entertaining diatribe, as Adams had
picked him up and casually tossed him across the docking bay to crash into the
outer bay doors. He broke one arm and two ribs, and with him no longer agitating,
the rest of the Keepers were much more docile. Personally, I think the only
reason Adams didn’t toss that stupid asshole out an airlock was, she hoped for
another opportunity to really beat the shit out of him.

Six days later, Skippy was confident enough with
the results from the four volunteers, that he wanted to expand the testing to
the others, all of them. I provided an incentive in the form of real food for
volunteers, as the Keepers had been surviving on sludges that were left over
from our Newark mission. And, yes, I made sure the keepers ate the truly nasty
banana-flavored sludges first, so we could get rid of them. Even Chisolm
offered to be tested, after seeing the first four volunteers eating fresh
salads, fresh strawberries, French fries and cheeseburgers. It was a sign of my
generous beneficence that I gave precious cheeseburgers to the Keepers. We were
running very low on cheeseburger components, it was a big sacrifice not to eat
them all myself. The Keepers’ mouths were watering as they watched Green and
the three others chow down on cheeseburgers, a treat they had not enjoyed since
long before they left Paradise.

Eight days after that, Skippy contacted me in my
office. “Joe, I am completely, absolutely satisfied with the test results. The
Keepers are cured, one hundred percent.”

“The vaccine, too?” I had been the first
volunteer to be injected with the test vaccine, over the objections of Adams,
Chotek, Chang and others.

“The vaccine also. Completely, satisfyingly
successful. This is one of my greatest triumphs, truly. What is most amazing
about me is that I have somehow managed to amaze myself. Whoo-boy, never
thought
 that
 could happen. What are
the odds, huh?”

“Those odds must, uh, be more than my monkey
brain could calculate,” I agreed quickly, to short-circuit him going on a long
tangent about how awesomely awesome he was. “That’s great. You’re ready to
transmit the package then?”

“Ready at the first opportunity.”

“I’ll talk with Chotek to get permission. Damn,
I can’t believe we’re finally going home.”

“Oh, yeah. Joy. Another soul-stirring visit to
that miserable ball of mud orbiting a boring yellow dwarf star; who wouldn’t be
just 
thrilled
 about that?”

“Think of it as your opportunity to finally give
smart replies to those idiots who said nasty things to you on Facebook last
time.”

“Ooooooh, good point! That little Jimmy
what’s-his-name is 
so
 going to regret
his ignorant comment about ‘Galaxy Quest’. Big jerk.”

“I’m sure he will.”

 

Chotek approved sending what we called ‘The Package’.
Our opportunity came when a passing Jeraptha ship exchanged messages with the
communications relay. The relay sent the messages onward to Paradise, including
a large dump of data Skippy had previously loaded into the relay’s databanks.
To the Ruhar on Paradise, it would look like our package had been delivered by
the Jeraptha ship.

The package contained extensive analysis, test
results and instructions how to manufacture the cure and vaccines for both
humans and Ruhar. Embedded in the package were subtle hints that miracle cure
had been provided by the Maxolhx, who were embarrassed and pissed off that
clients under them had acted in such a rash manner that might blow back on the
senior species.

Then, we had to wait and hope the Ruhar would
take action.

 

 “Bingo!
Good news, Joe!” Skippy shouted excitedly over my zPhone while I was in the
gym. At least he hadn’t interrupted me in the shower, so I counted that one in
the ‘W’ column.

Carefully letting the bench-press bar settle
into the clamps, I sat up and pulled the phone off my belt. “You sound happy.
Did you just think of a way to persuade Jimmy he is wrong about, uh, what was
it?”

“Galaxy Quest, Joe. No, this is not about frivolous
arguments with strangers on the internet. I have great news. And, uh, kind of a
problem. Could we speak in private?”

“Sure thing, Skippy.” I walked into passageway
and turned left to go aft. There were plenty of mostly-empty cargo bays in that
direction. “What’s up?”

“The Ruhar government on Paradise, led by your
old friend the Burgermeister, has just approved a testing program for the human
vaccine. UNEF has over a thousand volunteers. Not UNEF, exactly, because as you
know the ‘Force’ part of UNEF is dissolving rapidly.”

“Wow, that is great news! What about the Ruhar
form of the vaccine?”

“That is being tested also, with a lot fewer
volunteers. Finding test subjects for the hamster form of vaccine is less
important, because the Ruhar have sophisticated techniques for modeling the
vaccine’s effectiveness in computer models and in tissue samples. Remember how
in the village of Teskor, you saw the farmer there growing meat without growing
the entire animal?”

“Yes, I remember,” I agreed with an involuntary
shudder. “It was kinda creepy.”

“The humans on Paradise would disagree, because
the Ruhar have pilot programs to adapt that meat-growing technology to foods
humans can eat. Cheeseburgers may soon be back on the menu for people on
Paradise, Joe!”

“Outstanding, but how does that affect vaccine
testing?” If he went off on a tangent, I might forget the questions I needed to
ask.

“Because the hamsters have laboratory versions
of their bodies, without any sort of higher brain functions. These lab shells,
as they are called, allow the Ruhar to run complete and accurate tests under
controlled conditions. They can vaccinate shells, then infect them with the
pathogen. Joe, when they do that, they will see my vaccine is a hundred percent
effective. That should relieve the pressure on their federal government to,
ahem,” he cleared his throat, “‘do something’ about humans. We both know what
‘do something’ means.”

“Yeah, we do. Skippy, this is truly excellent.
One question for you. In your gift package about the cure and vaccines, you
hinted it was from the Maxolhx. Did the Ruhar buy that? I’m concerned the Maxolhx
will find out about it, and they sure know they weren’t involved.”

“That is 
two

questions, dumdum. Man, you never learn. Ok, first, yes the Ruhar totally
bought it, because they know that pathogen took seriously advanced biotech to
create, so it makes sense the Maxolhx might have been involved. Second, no way
would the Maxolhx deny taking credit for providing that gift package, 
duh
. It gives them a plausible way out
if they someday 
are
 involved in a
bioweapon attack, because they will say their involvement in providing this
vaccine proves they are strictly against any violations of The Rules. Also, the
Maxolhx will assume the whole mess was the work of the Bosphuraq, which is what
I suspect anyway. Giving the Maxolhx credit for providing the vaccine will be
seen as a sort of get-out-of-jail-free card played by the Bosphuraq. I do not
see any downside for us in this.”

“Great.”

“Of course, I did not see any downside to us
telling the Jeraptha about a sneak attack by the Thuranin, and that blew up in
our faces big-time, so shmaybe I am not the best person to ask.”

“As always, I am 
bursting
 with confidence after talking with you, Skippy.”

“Don’t kill the messenger, Joe.”

“Sorry. Ok, so, how long do we have to hang
around here until we know for certain the vaccine works? No, wait, I mean,
until the Ruhar government decides humans are no longer a threat, and they lift
the quarantine?”

“We don’t need to wait here, Joe. We can get
under way, and ping a Ruhar communications relay before we leave their
territory. Before we make the final jump to the wormhole I shut down, there
will be plenty of time for the news to get ahead of us.”

“Wow, that is great to hear. Chotek will be
thrilled. Oh, shit.”

“What?”

“You said there is a problem we need to talk
about?”

“Uh, yeah.” He did an awkward throat-clearing
sound. “You need to decide whether bringing me back to Earth is worth the
risk.”

“The, uh, what?”

“
Ugh
.
Come 
on
, Joe. I bared my soul to you,
I thought we had an honest-to-God 
moment
,
and you’ve forgotten about it already?”

“Refresh my memory, Ok? Oh,” I snapped my
fingers. “Hell, is this that idiot thing about you being a dire threat to the
galaxy, because you suspect that Elder AI killed the planet Newark?”

“I 
strongly

suspect that, and yes, it is about that. Bringing me close to your home planet
may not be the best idea.”

“Oh, dammit, Skippy, are we going to do this
every time we go somewhere sensitive? Listen, I asked you before, do you feel
like going on a genocidal killing spree?”

“Well, maybe against the Maxolhx, but they 
totally
 deserve it.”

“Ok, then-”

“And the Kristang warrior caste, of course.”

“Of course.”

“Plus, you know, whoever else was involved in
throwing the planet Newark out of orbit.”

“Ayuh, got that.”

“Ooh, ooh!” He was on a roll. “Also, people who
go through the express lane at the grocery store, even though they know they
have 
way
 more than ten items in their
cart.”

“Ohh-Kay,” this conversation had kind of
spiraled out of control. “Anyone else?”

“Hmmm. Yeah. Jerks who know their lane is going
away, but instead of politely merging like everyone else, they blow past the
line, put their blinker on and try slipping into the front of the line because
they are 
soooo
 freakin’ important.”

“I hate them, too, Skippy. Hey, listen-”

“Telemarketers. Preachers who ask for money on
TV. Joe, I have a 
big
 list.”

“Uh huh. But, you don’t feel like willy-nilly
wiping out life on Earth, right?”

“Shmaybe if dopes on the internet piss me off
again with their stupid-”

“Let’s keep you off Facebook, then, huh? Will we
be safe, then?”

“I guess so.”

“And you are sure we can hit up a relay on the
way home, get confirmation this crisis is over?”

“Abso-freakin’-lutely, Joe. We may have to wait
there for a while for news to catch up to us, but there’s no reason we can’t
get started now on the journey home. It is time for an epic Merry Band of
Pirates road trip!”

“A road trip is when you leave home, Skippy, not
when you’re going back.”

“Close enough?”

“Ah, close enough.”

Hans Chotek 
loved

the idea of departing for home sooner than later, so we did.

 

Two days later, I was sitting in my office
staring at a laptop screen. It was 1422 Hours and I had skipped lunch,
hopefully the Chinese team on galley duty that day was not insulted by my
absence. Lunch was probably delicious as always, that day I just was not
hungry. That morning, my run on the treadmill had been totally worthless, to
the point where I cut it short and let someone else use the machine.

I 
should

be happy. We were going home. The crisis on Paradise appeared to be resolved. Skippy
had successfully replaced the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
’s original Thuranin computer
with a new one that allowed us to mostly fly the ship by ourselves. The last
six times we jumped, we programmed the jumps on our own, with Skippy only
watching. The new computer helped us program jumps with a lot better accuracy
than we had ever hoped to before, and the computer got the drive coils
realigned each time so they worked together properly. The system wasn’t perfect
and Skippy still had to make minor adjustments, but the drive would not fall
apart without him. The computer also was slowly learning how to manage the team
of bots that maintained the ship, to keep the reactors running properly and to
perform all the thousands of other vital tasks that kept the ship from
exploding every day. Now that we had fully cut over to the new computer, the
old system was not being used, and Skippy promised me he was working to bring
Nagatha back, although he did warn me to beware the Law of Unintended
Consequences.

I was willing to take that risk. The crew wanted
Nagatha back, I wanted her back, and we owed her.

Plus, she bugged the shit out of Skippy, so,
bonus.

“Hey, Joey!” Skippy shimmered to life on my
desk. I didn’t bother to say it was his avatar, by now I thought of the Grand
Admiral avatar as him.

“Hey, Skip.”

“Whoa. What’s wrong with you today, Joe? You
have been moping around all day. This morning you hit the snooze alarm, and you
never do that.”

“Sorry, I’m just,” I waved a hand, not having the
energy to think what to say.

“Dude, you should be happy. You should be
excited! You are going 
home
. How can
that not be great for you?”

“It’s uh, yeah, great.”

“Clearly it is 
not
 great for you. Hey! I just demonstrated empathy again!”

“Um, yeah, actually, you did. You’re proud of that,
huh?”

“
Proud
?
No, dumdum, I thought I deactivated that pain-in-the-ass empathy subroutine. It
looks like the stupid thing somehow got woven into my personality matrix. Oh
crap, now I’ll have to go hunt it down and kill it.”

I face-palmed myself, muttering through my hand.
Actually, the beer can had me chuckling, so that was good. “Why don’t you leave
it alone for a while, as an experiment? See if maybe this empathy thing grows
on you.”

“Grows on me like a freakin’ 
fungus
,” he grumbled. “Sure, I’ll give
it a shot. So, what is 
wrong
 with
your sorry ass? You are going home, dude!”

“Yeah, going home, and we can report we saved
Earth again and saved Paradise a couple times, too.”

“Plus, 
plus
,
I have started sharing technology with you monkeys! You heard that yesterday, I
gave Doctor Friedlander part of the math behind jump field theory?”

“I did hear that, and thank you. He told me it
will take years to understand that math, but-”

“Oh, dude, please. You monkeys are
 never
 going to understand that math.
Ha! As if!” He laughed. “That was only a test, seeing if I could get around my
internal restrictions. So far, so good. If it works,
 I
 will be able to explain the math. Because no way will a monkey
brain get it.”

“Uh huh, that’s great. Skippy, maybe I’m being a
Debbie Downer, but as 
you
 said, all
this good news of us being able to fly the ship by ourselves and you sharing
technology doesn’t mean shit. Earth is doomed. When we get home, I have to tell
UNEF Command that in less than sixty years, aliens will detect the gamma rays
from the wormhole that is supposed to be dormant. Oh, and on top of that super
wonderful news, I have to tell them that an Elder AI wiped out the population of
Newark.”

“Dude, you told me not to worry about that. You
told me you weren’t worried about it!”

“
I
 am
not worried about you going crazy and killing planets. UNEF Command already
doesn’t trust you, and when they learn how you got attacked by a worm designed
to destroy rogue AIs, and that an AI like you threw an entire planet out of
orbit, they 
are
 going to be worried.”

“Oh, crap.”

“So, now do you understand why I am not jumping
for joy about going home?”

“I do understand that, because I understand you
are a dumdum.”

“How is that?”

“Joe, I also told you I am not worried about aliens
turning your home planet into a radioactive cinder, because you are a
remarkably clever monkey. I’m sure you will think of something.”

“Like what? You got any suggestions?”

“Nope. As far as I can see, all future pathways
end with your species thoroughly extinct.”

“Future pathways?”

“Um, forget I mentioned that,” he said hastily. “
That
 subject is something I will not be
sharing with anyone.”

“Fine.”

“Anywho, as far as the universe is concerned,
there is no quantum uncertainty about the fate of humanity; you are all totally
screwed. To use Schroedinger’s example, this cat was dead 
before
 it went into the box.”

“Is your empathy subroutine why you are being so
incredibly good at cheering me up? That’s it? All of us monkeys are dead, and
there’s nothing we can do about it?”

“No.”

“But you just said-”

“I know what I said. I also have learned something
very important during my time with you. On one side of the equation is the
implacable logic of the universe that has existed unchanged for billions of
years. On the other side is a monkey who says ‘duuuuuuh, what about this?’ Joe,
in that conflict, the universe is totally 
fucked
.”

“For realz?”

“For realz, homeboy. Joe, you jumped this ship 
through
 an Elder wormhole. Believe me,
the universe trembles when you monkeys get an idea. Oooooh, I can’t 
wait
 to see how you monkeys get out of
this mess.”

“Thanks, Skippy.” Great, I thought. No pressure
on me. Then I thought, oh, what the hell. We are going home, and, damn it, I am
going to enjoy it.

There are going to be cheeseburgers!

And, damn it, I’m finally going to eat a delicious
Fluffernutter.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTY FIVE
The welcome home for the Mavericks was not the
sort of triumphant celebration Emily Perkins had been hoping for, and she
admitted to herself, kind of expected. Her team had uncovered a secret that apparently
forced the Maxolhx coalition to destroy their own ship, and provide both a vaccine
and a cure for a very sophisticated bioweapon. She was disappointed to learn
her team would be quarantined in southern Lemuria with almost all other humans
on Paradise, until the Ruhar public felt confident the danger was over. The
Mavericks had been the first to volunteer to test the new vaccine, along with
about half the control group Keepers, who were seriously regretting they had
ever forsaken UNEF and left Paradise. All those returning Keepers would be kept
in a secure prison camp until the civilian authorities decided what to do with
them, at the moment there wasn’t a lot of sympathy from either humans or Ruhar for
their situation.

After being poked, prodded and sampled until she
wasn’t sure she had any blood left in her veins, Perkins had been allowed to
visit UNEF HQ, although no aircraft were available so the trip took six hours
over back-breaking dirt roads in a truck. She was greeted by General Lynn Bezanson,
who had also been vaccinated, and was hoping to return to the capital city to
resume her duty as a liaison officer.

After congratulations and the necessary idle
chit-chat, Perkins got right to the point. “General, being offworld was
terrific, but it was a small team, on an old training ship full of cadets. If
we are going to prove our worth to the Ruhar, and keep what’s left of the
ExForce from evaporating, we need a much bigger opportunity to do something
really useful out here.”

“What kind of opportunity are you thinking?”

 “The
Ruhar military, especially their light ground forces, are stretched very thin
right now. They’re taking a lot of new territory since the Jeraptha offensive
pushed the Thuranin back, and the hamsters don’t have enough boots to cover the
ground they want to secure. The longer they wait to establish a presence on a
world they want to claim, the more the Thuranin, and now the Bosphuraq, will be
tempted to take star systems back. In the current offensive, the Bosphuraq are
coming into systems, knocking out major defenses, then moving on to the next
objective. They leave Wurgalan ships and troops behind to do the dirty,
dangerous work of securing the place. I’m thinking that’s where we could play a
role; doing the crap jobs that the hamsters don’t have the manpower for, or
just don’t want to do.”

“Like a band of mercenaries?” Bezanson asked
with a frown that included more than a hint of revulsion. She had served
alongside mercs, or to use the more politically correct term ‘military
contractors’, in the Middle East and Nigeria, and she did not have good
memories of that experience. Renting out the ExForce sounded too much like the
dubious reason they left Earth, years ago.

Perkins shook her head once, emphatically,
knowing what the General was thinking. “No, Ma’am, I was thinking this would be
more like an alien version of the French Foreign Legion. An Alien Legion. We
wouldn’t really be mercenaries, because we would only work for the Ruhar, not
the highest bidder.”

“Alien Legion? I can just imagine what a
nightmare command and control would be for a force that has multiple species in
it.”

“I’m more concerned about logistics. We can
settle on standard armor, weapons and other gear, but food is going to be a big
problem. We can’t eat Ruhar food, or Kristang, I mean, Verd-Kris food.”

“And the lizards can’t eat hamster chow either,
I get it. How far down the road have you gotten in planning this?”

“With the Ruhar, not far other than a ‘what if’
conversation aboard the 
Toaster
,
before everything went sideways. I overheard a group of hamsters complaining
how their ground forces have too many taskings and not enough boots, and there
are some jobs their Starborne Army doesn’t want to take on.”

Bezanson did not like the sound of that. “Too
risky?”

“No, too messy. Like ops to pacify and move out
a native population, on a planet the hamsters want, but is not a big enough strategic
priority for them to commit a couple Army divisions. That kind of op is time
and manpower-intensive, and their Army doesn’t want to get bogged down in ops
that are not strategically vital right now. The officers I overheard were
complaining their military command is missing opportunities they should
exploit, because they don’t have the resources. I mentioned it to Surgun Jakes,
he has heard rumors of Ruhar command approaching the Verd-Kris to assist, but
so far the Ruhar brass doesn’t want to trust one group of lizards to police
another group of lizards. But if humans were in the mix, in command of the op,”
she held her hands palms up.

The General nodded, warming to the idea.
“Especially if the particular human in command has saved thousands, millions,
of Ruhar lives on multiple occasions?”

Perkins blushed at the praise. “Right now, the
Mavericks are popular with the Ruhar public, even beyond Paradise. This is a
golden opportunity for us to get beyond one planet. And we have transport.”

“What?”

“That Jeraptha ship that plucked us away from
Camp Alpha? They are an independent operation and they’re looking for paying
work. I got the impression they owe more in gambling debts than the ship is
worth, and they are finding it hard to get shipping contracts in their own
society. Their ship is sort of a star carrier, only its hardpoints are for
attaching cargo or passenger modules. It could be made into an assault
transport if the Ruhar pay for the conversion. These beetles are desperate for
paying jobs. The money they earned recently just got them to the break-even
point.”

“If they’re that desperate, can you trust the
ship not to fall apart?”

“I think so. One of their engineers bitched
about not being paid in months, but she said the money went toward parts they
needed. Ma’am, an Alien Legion-”

“Let’s call this theoretical outfit the ExForce,
take advantage of the name recognition. Your Mavericks can take the lead.”

“Yes, Ma’am,” Perkins blushed faintly. In her
background as an intelligence analyst, she was used to 
being
 in the backgro

und. Having the spotlight, and all the pressure
on her, made her uncomfortable. “The Force is falling apart, like you said,
soon the last person to leave UNEF HQ will need to turn the lights off. The
problem isn’t just tempting opportunities available here to civilians. We came
out here as soldiers, as a fighting force, and other than my unit, there hasn’t
been any potential for action since the last Kristang left the planet. If we
can offer people to be 
soldiers

again, to carry weapons in harm’s way and make a difference, that might pull
the Force together again. It won’t bring everyone back, we won’t need that many
people. But it will be a reason to have pride in this,” she tapped the ExForce
patch on her uniform top. “Our motto is ‘Anytime, anywhere, any fight’? Right
now, the only ‘where’ is our little patch of southern Lemuria, and the only
thing we’re ‘fighting’ is native weeds in our corn fields.”

“Yeah, and the ‘time’ is every day. Same thing,
every single day. All right, Perkins, you’ve sold me. I’ll kick it upstairs,
the Old Man,” she meant the Indian Army general currently commanding what was
left of the Expeditionary Force, “will want to see a detailed plan before we
approach the hamsters. But, I can tell you right now,” she flashed a grin, “HQ
is going to 
love
 this idea. They’ve
got nothing else to offer as incentives for people staying in the Force. The
person we,” Perkins noted the General had used the word ‘we’, “really need to
sell on the concept is your old friend the Burgermeister.”

“We have a good relationship,” the Mavericks
leader said with confidence.

“I’m sure you do, and that’s not our ace in the
hole,” Bezanson added with an arched eyebrow. “When the Chief Administrator
heard about what you found on Camp Alpha, and how you got there, she told me
she had complete confidence in you. She also asked me how you manage to find
trouble 
everywhere
 you go.”

“Trouble finds 
us
. Our Mysterious Benefactor ‘Emby’, whoever that is, recruited us
to dig up those maser projectors. It wasn’t our idea.”

“That’s not the point. Perkins, I am certain the
Burgermeister would prefer you find trouble on some 
other
 planet.”

“Oh,” Perkins expression brightened as she
understood the General’s meaning. “We will do our best, but I can’t promise
anything.”

“I was afraid you’d say that.”

“General, there is another, longer-term reason I
want to set up this Alien Legion or whatever we’re going to call it.”

“Let’s call it ‘ExForce’ for now. We already
have a logo.”

“And a slogan,” Perkins nodded with a smile.
“Ok, the slogan fits; we’ll go anytime or anywhere the Ruhar need dirty jobs
done. We can’t refuse the engagements, or the Ruhar won’t trust us to come
through for them. So, ‘any fight’ is for damned sure true. Ma’am, long-term,
there are groups like the Verd-Kris who want to set things right in the galaxy,
and they are heartily sick of this war. Their goal is to retake control of
Kristang society and bring their culture back to what it was, before the
Thuranin put the warrior caste in power to serve those little green assholes.
If they succeed, the Verd-Kris plan to stop fighting, other than defensive
battles. They want 
out
 of this
endless war, and the Verd-Kris are not the only people who feel that way.”

“They’ll need a whole lot more firepower to make
their pie-in-the-sky dream come true, Perkins.”

“Yes, but we know a large faction of Ruhar
society is also tired of the war. Even the Jeraptha are weary of the fighting,
that’s why they haven’t made a big effort to press their advantage after they
kicked the Thuranin’s asses. Ma’am, if we ever contact Earth again, and our
planet is in one piece, we can’t do the same stupid shit we tried the first
time. We can’t fight in this war, not for either side. Earth’s only hope is to
join a coalition that does not want to fight anymore.”

“There is no such coalition, Perkins.”

“Not yet, Ma’am. Someone needs to get it
started, and in the new ExForce, I will be meeting a lot of aliens who are not
just fighting the usual, age-old fight.”

Bezanson straightened in her chair, leaning
forward. “You are certainly ambitious, Lieutenant Colonel Perkins.”

“I was trained as an intel specialist, this kind
of political intrigue is my wheelhouse.”

“Maybe,” Bezanson conceded. “Don’t let your
wheel steer humanity onto the rocks, because we don’t have a fallback. I do not
think HQ will approve any plan for creating a revolution in alien societies.”

“For now, all I will do is gather intel.
General, I know nothing can happen unless something changes the balance of
power in this sector, maybe the entire galaxy. If it does,” she raised an
eyebrow, “we need to be ready to take advantage. The time for planning is 
before
 the action kicks off.”

 

That night, Emily called Sergeant Czajka. “Dave,
I heard you have an offer to go into business here, something about brewing
beer for the hamsters?”

Dave
?
David Czajka held the zPhone away from his ear so he could stare at it in
disbelief. She called him by his first name? What the hell was going on? “Uh,”
he had absolutely no idea what to say. “Colonel, I, uh-”

“Sergeant Jarrett mentioned you have an
opportunity dirtside here.”

“Oh, um, yeah. I’ve been thinking about it.
Listen, Ma’am, I really appreciate being on your team, it’s been great, it’s
just-” Just what? What would he say? What could he say? “Colonel-”

“Please, call me Emily,” there was a catch in
her voice. “If you haven’t accepted the offer yet, I would,” she had to pause
to swallow hard. “I would very much appreciate if you wait a bit. I’m working
on something, something big, and there might be an opportunity for you, for all
of us. Things are changing, we are stuck out here and we can’t keep blindly
following all the old rules, if they aren’t working for us. For the mission.”

“Um, uh, yeah.”

“You hear what I’m saying?” She had to catch her
breath again. “Dave?”

“I, I think so. Em, Emily.”

“Great!” Damn, she pressed a hand to her
forehead. I am as giddy as a schoolgirl. “I’m at HQ now, but, I’ll find a truck
and I’ll come see you. We can talk, Ok?”

“Talk. Yeah, that,” Dave silently pumped a fist
in the air, making Jesse look to see what the fuss was about. “That would be
great!”

 

THE END

 

Author’s
note:

Thank you reading one of my books! It took years
to write my first three books, I had a job as a business manager for an IT
company so I wrote at night, on weekends and during vacations. While I had many
ideas for books over the years, the first one I ever completed was ‘Aces’ and I
sort of wrote that book for my at-the-time teenage nieces. If you read ‘Aces’,
you can see some early elements of the Expeditionary Force stories; impossible
situations, problem-solving, clever thinking and some sarcastic humor.

Next I wrote a book about the program to develop
faster-than-light spaceflight, it was an adventure story about astronauts
stranded on an alien planet and trying to warn Earth about a dangerous flaw in
the FTL drive. It was a good story, and I submitted it to traditional
publishers back in the mid-2000s. And I got rejections. My writing was ‘solid’,
which I have since learned means publishers can’t think of anything else to say
but don’t want to insult aspiring writers. The story was too long, they wanted
me to cut it to a novella and change just about everything. Instead of
essentially scrapping the story and starting over, I threw it out and tried
something else.

Columbus Day and Ascendant were written together
starting around 2011, I switched back and forth between writing those two
books. The idea for Ascendant came to me after watching the first Harry Potter
movie, one of my nieces asked what would have happened to Harry Potter if no
one ever told him he is a wizard? Hmm, I thought, that is a very good
question.... So, I wrote Ascendant.

In the original, very early version of Columbus
Day, Skippy was a cute little robot who stowawayed on a ship when the Kristang
invade Earth, and he helps Joe defeat the aliens. After a year trying to write
that version, I decided it sounded too much like a Disney Channel movie of the
week, and it, well, it sucked. Although it hurt to waste a year’s worth of
writing, I threw away that version and started over. This time I wrote an
outline for the entire Expeditionary Force story arc first, so I would know
where the overall story is going. That was a great idea and I have stuck to
that outline (with minor detours along the way).

With Aces, Columbus Day and Ascendant finished
by the summer of 2015 and no publisher interested, my wife suggested that I:

1) 
Try
self-publishing the books in Amazon

2) 
For
the love of God please shut up about not being able to get my books published

3) 
Clean
out the garage

It took six months of research and revisions to
get the three books ready for upload to Amazon. In addition to reformatting the
books to Amazon’s standards, I had to buy covers and set up an Amazon account
as a writer. When I clicked the ‘Upload’ button on January 10
th
 2016
my greatest hope was that somebody, anybody out there would buy ONE of my books
because then I could be a published author. After selling one of each book, my
goal was to make enough money to pay for the cover art I bought online (about
$35 for each book).

For that first half-month of January 2016,
Amazon sent us a check for $410.09 and we used part of the money for a nice
dinner. I think the rest of the money went toward buying new tires for my car.

At the time I uploaded Columbus Day, I had the
second book in the series SpecOps about halfway done, and I kept writing at
night and on weekends. By April, the sales of Columbus Day were at the point
where my wife and I said “Whoa, this could be more than just a hobby”. At that
point, I took a week of vacation to stay home and write SpecOps 12 hours a day
for nine days. Truly fun-filled vacation! Doing that gave me a jump-start on
the schedule, and SpecOps was published at the beginning of June 2016. In the
middle of that July, to our complete amazement, we were discussing whether I
should quit my job to write full-time. That August I had a “life is too short”
moment when a family friend died and then my grandmother died, and we decided I
should try this writing thing full-time. Before I gave notice at my job, I
showed my wife a business plan listing the books I planned to write for the
next three years, with plot outlines and publication dates. This assured my
wife that quitting my real job was not an excuse to sit around in shorts and
T-shirts watching sci fi movies ‘for research’.

During the summer of 2016, R.C. Bray was offered
Columbus Day to narrate, and I’m sure his first thought was “A book about a
talking beer can? Riiiight. No.” Fortunately, he thought about it again, or was
on heavy-duty medication for a bad cold, or if he wasn’t busy recording the
book his wife expected him to repaint the house. Anyway, RC recorded Columbus
Day, went back to his fabulous life of hanging out with movie stars and hitting
golf balls off his yacht, and probably forgot all about the talking beer can.

When I heard RC Bray would be narrating Columbus
Day, my reaction was “THE RC Bray? The guy who narrated The Martian? Winner of
an Audie Award for best sci fi narrator? Ha ha, that is a good one. Ok, who is
really narrating the book?”

Then the Columbus Day audiobook became a huge
hit. And is a finalist for an ‘Audie’ Award as Audiobook of the Year!

When I got an offer to create audio versions of
the Ascendant series, I was told the narrator would be Tim Gerard Reynolds. My
reaction was “You mean some other guy named Tim Gerard Reynolds? Not the TGR
who narrated the Red Rising audiobooks, right?”

Clearly, I have been very fortunate with
narrators for my audiobooks. To be clear, they chose to work with me, I did not
‘choose’ them. If I had contacted Bob or Tim directly, I would have gone into
super fan-boy mode and they would have filed for a restraining order. So,
again, I am lucky they signed onto the projects.

So far, there is no deal for Expeditionary Force
to become a movie or TV show, although I have had inquiries from producers and
studios about the ‘entertainment rights’. From what people in the industry have
told me, even if a studio or network options the rights, it will be a
loooooooooong time before anything actually happens. I will get all excited for
nothing, and years will go by with the project going through endless cycles
with producers and directors coming aboard and disappearing, and just when I
have totally given up and sunk into the Pit of Despair, a miracle will happen
and the project gets financing! Whoo-hoo. I am not counting on it. On the other
hand, Disney is pulling their content off Netflix next year, so Netflix will be
looking for new original content...

Again, Thank YOU for reading one of my books.
Writing gives me a great excuse to avoid cleaning out the garage.

 

Contact the author at 
craigalanson@gmail.com
 

https://www.facebook.com/Craig.Alanson.Author/
 

 

Go to craigalanson.com for blogs and ExForce logo
merchandise including T-shirts, patches, sticker, hats, and coffee mugs

 

The Expeditionary Force series

Book 1: Columbus Day

Book 2: SpecOps

Book 3: Paradise

Book ‘3.5’: Trouble on Paradise novella

Book 4: Black Ops

Book 5: Zero Hour

Book6: Mavericks

Book7 – coming November 2018