Table of Contents

CHAPTER ONE

CHAPTER TWO

CHAPTER THREE

CHAPTER FOUR

CHAPTER FIVE

CHAPTER SIX

CHAPTER SEVEN

CHAPTER EIGHT

CHAPTER NINE

CHAPTER TEN

CHAPTER ELEVEN

CHAPTER TWELVE

CHAPTER THIRTEEN

CHAPTER FOURTEEN

CHAPTER FIFTEEN

CHAPTER SIXTEEN

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN

CHAPTER NINETEEN

CHAPTER TWENTY

CHAPTER TWENTY ONE

CHAPTER TWENTY TWO

CHAPTER TWENTY THREE

CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR

CHAPTER TWENTY FIVE

CHAPTER TWENTY SIX

CHAPTER TWENTY SEVEN

CHAPTER TWENTY EIGHT

CHAPTER TWENTY NINE

CHAPTER THIRTY

CHAPTER THIRTY ONE

CHAPTER THIRTY TWO

CHAPTER THIRTY THREE

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER ONE

 

As our Frankenship limped toward the Ruhar data
relay station, I squeezed my hands together to prevent from showing my anxiety
in a more obvious fashion. It did not help that Major Desai was not in either
of the pilot couches, instead two Chinese were handling the piloting. They were
highly skilled, they had trained long and hard and demonstrated their
competence, and they were not Desai. When I requested she fly the ship for
this, our last stop before setting course straight for Earth, she flat-out
refused in a polite, respectful but firm way. She was not always going to be
aboard the 
Dutchman
, and I had to
show the other pilots that I had faith in them. No amount of argument would
change her mind, not even when I reminded her the main reactor had shut down
twice in the past five days, that the new computer system was having trouble
realigning the drive coils after each jump, and there was a frustrating,
intermittent glitch in the stealth field generators. Each time we suffered a
glitch, Skippy assured me he had a handle on the problem, that the glitches
were actually helping him to fine-tune the new AI that could run the ship for
us. His attempts to assure me would have been more successful if we were making
progress on getting the ship to run smoothly, but we were experiencing more
problems, not less.

So, I was not feeling super-duper confident as we
approached a Ruhar relay station, outside an isolated star system that was the
last place we planned to stop before going home. Finally, home. “You’re sure
about this, Skippy?”

“Yes, I am sure, Mister Worrywart,” the beer can’s
peevish tone told me he was feeling frustrated too. “Sit in your chair and, I
don’t know, play a game on your phone or something, leave the adults to do our
jobs. We would already have the data if you hadn’t insisted on taking
precautions that are 
totally
 not
necessary.”

He was right about that. Not about whether we
needed to be extra careful, that was a judgment call. I had ordered us to jump
in a full day away from the relay station, to give our balky reactor plenty of
time to fully recharge the jump drive coils before we approached the station.
If we encountered any unexpected problems, I wanted to be able to make several
jumps even if the reactor was offline. “We’ve been away from Earth a long time;
another day is not going to make a difference. All right, fine, go ahead, do
your thing.”

“Fine,” he huffed in a way that meant it was
anything but fine.

The data we needed was not anything classified or
obscure, it should have been at the top of the message traffic priority chart.
And it was. “Bingo!” Skippy exulted. “Got it! The situation on Paradise is a
hot topic, lots of data I can skim right off the top. I will give you a summary
while I keep digging, might as well collect all the data we can while we’re
here.”

“Good news?” I cringed as soon as I spoke, fearing
I had jinxed us.

“As you would say in your horrible Downeast accent,
‘Ayuh’. Good news indeed. The program of vaccinations and creating a supply of
curative drugs is proceeding well, one–third of the human population has already
been vaccinated. The Ruhar federal government is urging all the hamsters there
to get the vaccine, and there is debate about making the vaccine available to
all planets in their entire territory as a preventative measure. Of course,
there is the usual cluster of looney-tunes who reject vaccines, although the
same morons don’t have a problem with medical nanomachines swimming in their
blood. Ah, hey, that’s how nature gets idiots out of the gene pool, right?
Bottom line, Joe, humans on Paradise are safe, and travel restrictions are
being eased to allow normal commerce to resume. Colonel Perkins and her
Mavericks just arrived back on Paradise, their presence is reminding the Ruhar
that a group of 
humans
 discovered the
lizard bioweapon plot against the planet. And that a group of humans rescued a
ship full of cadets. Public opinion on Paradise is shifting from viewing humans
as a threat, to thinking are humans just as much victims of the Kristang as the
Ruhar public is.”

“That,” I sighed and shuddered with relief,
wriggling in the chair to mask how my shoulders had shaken. “That is great
news.” Beside my chair, Hans Chotek clapped his hands together with
satisfaction, allowing a tight smile to crease his lips.

“Yup. Good news all around. Another couple seconds
and the download will be complete, mostly boring stuff you wouldn’t care about.
Annnnd, Ok, got it. We can go. I’ll sort through the data and decrypt it while
we’re going to Earth.”

“Outstanding. Pilot, jump option Alpha.” Then,
because those words were rather dull for such a momentous occasion, I clear my
throat to get everyone’s attention. “Take us home.”

 

It was my fault, all my fault. Not only was I
walking around with a stupid smile on my face since we jumped away from the
relay station, I also suggested to Chotek that we have a big celebration at
dinner that night. The universe hated me, and decided I had exceeded my
Allowable Happiness Limit. In my cabin, I was examining the dress uniform I
planned to wear at dinner, when Skippy appeared on my bunk. “Hey, Joe,” he said
as he adjusted his giant hat.

“Hey Skippy, I mean, Your Lord Admiralship.
Listen, I know you are not thrilled about going back to Earth, but-”

“Joe, we need to talk.”

Oh, crap. I put the uniform top back on a hanger
and gave him my full attention. “Is this about you being worried that UNEF
Command won’t be in a rush to send the 
Dutchman

back out? We have almost sixty years before the gamma rays from that-”

“No, this is not about the idiot decisions a
high-ranking group of monkeys will make. It’s not even about the clock ticking
until other species realize the wormhole near Earth is not entirely dormant.
Joe, I have bad news.”

“If this bad news is something like the champagne
froze solid when you were draining that energy virus away from the ship, that
is not funny. We don’t need champagne to have a party, I’d rather drink beer
anyway.”

“This is not about the party tonight, and it is no
joke. You had better sit down.”

“Uh,” his avatar was on the bunk and I didn’t want
to sit on him, so he solved the problem by blinking out and reappearing on top
of a cabinet, so I sat on the bed. “What is it?”

“In the data we downloaded from the relay station
was bad news, and I mean really, really bad news.”

I glanced at my zPhone. “You are just telling me
about it now?”

“Hey, it’s not my fault! I decrypted and read
through all the classified data first, assuming that was where the important
info would be. I was wrong, there wasn’t anything we care about in those boring
files. When I skimmed through the data that was 
not
 encrypted, I found something very alarming. Remember I told you
we needed to stop screwing with wormholes, because eventually the senior
species would notice and get suspicious?”

“Oh, 
shit
.”

“Yeah. The final straw may have been us breaking
an Elder wormhole, or maybe that incident didn’t matter, maybe the Maxolhx were
already alarmed enough by unusual wormhole behavior. Whatever. Joe, the Maxolhx
have decided to send two ships to the wormhole near Earth, the one I shut
down.”

I didn’t respond. I couldn’t. All I could do was
sit there, staring at the deck in shock.

“What I found in the data is a message from the
Ruhar federal government, to their fleet and to Ruhar star systems those
Maxolhx ships may pass through along their flight path. The Rindhalu have
requested, strongly requested, that those Maxolhx ships be given clear passage
and not interfered with. If any Ruhar ships detect the Maxolhx task force, they
are to report the sighting but not take any hostile action.”

“The Rindhalu? Why, why would the spiders allow
the Maxolhx to fly through their territory?”

“Because the Maxolhx are 
so
 worried about what is happening to Elder wormholes, they
suggested a joint mission with the Rindhalu. Two ships, one from each senior
species, meeting at the far end of that wormhole and investigating it together.
Then they would travel together to the Earth end, using a wormhole in Ruhar
territory. The Rindhalu are concerned, but not concerned enough to get their
lazy asses off the couch and do something about it. The Rindhalu will examine
the data brought back by the Maxolhx, and decide then whether further action is
needed.”

Still, I couldn’t speak.

“Joe? Joe, come on, say something.”

“We’re doomed. Ok?!” I shouted as the stress
overwhelmed me. “We’re doomed! We are totally, completely, finally 
screwed
! Is that what you want me to
say? Huh?”

He took a step back on the cabinet. I noticed that
the back of his hat disappeared into the bulkhead, he must not have programmed
it to act like it was a real, solid hat. “Sorry, Joe. What I 
want
 you to say is that you will dream
up some monkey-brained idea to fix the problem, and everything will be fine.”

“Well, I can’t! Not this time. Not 
again
, Goddammit! I can’t do it, I,” my
voice broke and trailed off to a whisper. “I can’t do it. Not this time. Not
again.” I broke down crying, and I am not ashamed to say it. Everything the
Merry Band of Pirates had accomplished had been for nothing. Worse, our actions
to protect our home world from minor threats like the Kristang had attracted
the attention of the biggest bad guys in the galaxy. It was our fault
, my
 fault.

 

Skippy had either taken seriously my talks about
empathy, or he was embarrassed about me sitting on my bunk sobbing, because he
was quiet until I could talk again. “Give me a minute,” I muttered and went to
the tiny sink to splash water on my face. In the mirror, I stared at myself and
all I could think was thank God we were going to Earth, because I could step
aside and let someone else handle this problem. It had to be someone else,
because clearly all I ever accomplished was getting us out of one mess and into
an even bigger mess. Humanity needed a long-term plan, and Hans Chotek was
right, I reacted to crises instead of acting out a long-term strategy.

Long-term.

Going to Earth.

Oh, shit. Did we have time to do anything?

“Skippy,” I flung the towel into the sink. “How
long until those Maxolhx ships reach the near end of the wormhole?”

“I do not know that, Joe, the file did not contain
details of their flight plan.”

“Crap, then-”

“However, I do know the Maxolhx are not expected
to even launch the mission for another 
 
month.
They want to collect data from other, more accessible wormholes before
traveling all the way to Earth. That makes sense, it would suck to go all that
distance and realize they don’t know what to look for. They want to create a
baseline for wormhole behavior, so they can compare the Earth wormhole to others
that have acted in an anomalous fashion. That, uh, means they acted strangely.”

“I know what an ‘anomaly’ is, Skippy. Can they do
it?”

“Do what? Travel to Earth without using an Elder
wormhole? Yes, they can. It won’t take as long as that Thuranin surveyor ship
was going to need, but it won’t be quick either. The Maxolhx are used to
operating in areas where their ships can rely on extensive servicing
facilities. For the isolated journey to Earth, their ships will need to be
self-sufficient, that will require modifying something like a light cruiser.”

“Thanks, that was good info, but that was not my
question. I meant, can the Maxolhx get the, what did you call it? Baseline
measurements, from wormholes you screwed with?”

“Hmm, no, actually. That is a good question, Joe,
I should have thought of that myself. No, they can’t, but they don’t know that
yet. By now, any wormholes I screwed with along the way have fully returned to
their normal settings and behaviors. Except, hmm. This could be a problem. Remember
I told you that I noticed wormholes I screwed with had a slightly less stable
connection to the network, and even other wormholes in the local area are also
less stable?”

“Yeah,” I stared at the ceiling to recall what he
had told me. “You said that’s why we can’t keep screwing with the same
wormholes over and over, even though their locations are convenient to us.
Something about possibly triggering a shift across the network?”

“Exactly. Now that I think about it, the disruption
of the network connection should repair itself on a logarithmic timeline, but
sensitive instruments like the Maxolhx have might be able to detect the
residual effects, even now. I am sure the Maxolhx will bring their best
full-spectrum sensor technology to the effort. Hmmmm. Damn, Joe, it is good
that you asked that question. Once again, I find myself being shamed by an
ignorant monkey.”

“Uh huh. You’re not just saying that because you
know I feel like crap right now?”

“Why would I do that?” His avatar’s eyes were open
wide in puzzlement.

I shook my head. “No, uh, no reason.”

“Ooh! Ooh! Is this an empathy thing?”

“Ya think?”

“Ohhhhkay, Ok. Um, let me think of some comforting
bullshit to tell you. Joe, everything will be all right. And, um, imagine I said
whatever other meaningless platitudes people say at a time like this. Do you
feel better now?”

You know what, I did feel better. Not because of
anything he said, but because I imagined myself wringing his little neck.
“Yeah, that was super helpful, thank you.”

“Score!” The avatar jumped and mimed giving
someone a high five. “Ha! This empathy thing is easy. I don’t know why everyone
makes a big deal about it. You know what, the fact that the Maxolhx could
detect disruptions in wormhole connections could actually be good for us, I
mean for you monkeys. If the Maxolhx find lots of interesting data from examining
wormholes I adjusted, they might delay the mission to Earth, so they have more
time to collect and analyze the data.”

“Huh. That might be good, give us more time to
prepare.”

“Prepare how?” He took off his ridiculous hat and
scratched his shiny spherical head. “Paint a big target on Earth to make it
easier for the Maxolhx to destroy your planet?”

“That’s not-”

“Oops, sorry, that was insensitive. You actually
like that miserable mudball. Hmm, I guess you could prepare for a big blow-out ‘Coming
Extinction’ party. Maybe Hallmark has a set of balloons for a party like that.”

I gave him a single-finger gesture, and it was not
saying he was Number One. “I 
meant
,
prepare to destroy those ships before they get to Earth.”

“Hahahahaha! As if! Oooh, that’s a good one.
Monkeys destroy a pair of Maxolhx cruisers, hee hee.”

“Two weeks ago, you told me that in a contest
between the universe and a bunch of monkeys, the universe is totally screwed.”

“Oh, that. Yeah, I was mostly just bullshitting to
make you feel better. See, I tried empathy back then, and now it has 
totally
 backfired on both of us.”

Silently, I bonked my head on the cabinet next to
my bunk. “How about we drop the subject of what to do about the Maxolhx for
now?”

“Since any such talk is an utter waste of time, I
would love to drop that subject.”

“Great.” I stood up and rolled my shoulders to get
blood pumping. In a couple minutes, I needed to crush Hans Chotek’s spirit by
telling him the bad news. He was going to blame me, and what bothered me was,
he would be right to blame me. On our second mission, I dreamed up the idea of
Skippy screwing with Elder wormholes by changing their connections, and I never
considered the consequences. Another example of my short-term thinking. “The
Maxolhx suggested a joint mission with the Rindhalu? It was their idea? They
weren’t required to do that by some old treaty?”

“There is no such treaty. The Maxolhx even
suggested a Rindhalu representative might travel aboard one of their ships,
after the Rindhalu declined to send a ship to participate. The Rindhalu turned
that down immediately, they do not trust the Maxolhx at all.”

“So, the Maxolhx made the offer, hoping the
spiders would say no?”

“Nope. Those rotten kitties wanted a spider to
come with them, because they want access to knowledge the Maxolhx do not have.
If the Maxolhx can’t figure out what is wrong with the wormhole network, they
hope the Rindhalu understand the data.”

The idea of bitter enemies actually offering to
cooperate made me shake my head in wonder.
 

“Explain one thing to me; why would the Rindhalu 
not
 join the Maxolhx mission to investigate the wormhole near
Earth? Any potential problem with the Elder wormhole network has to get the
spiders worried big-time. The Rindhalu cannot possibly be 
that
 freakin’ lazy.”

“Well, they 
are

remarkably lazy. But you’re right, laziness is not the only reason they
declined the offer. They are insufferably 
arrogant
,
Joe. The Rindhalu were alone in the galaxy for a long time before the Maxolhx
developed technology for spaceflight. The spiders still view the Maxolhx as
primitive young punks who were lucky to get their hands on Elder technology
they could use as weapons. Without those Elder devices, the Rindhalu would have
stomped the Maxolhx back into the Stone Age when the kitties attacked. By now,
the Maxolhx have stolen or copied crucial Rindhalu technology, so the spiders
do not have a huge advantage. The simple answer is, in their ancient arrogance,
the Rindhalu believe they know pretty much everything there is to know about
the wormhole network. Whatever they do not know, they think the Maxolhx will
not be able to understand, so they see a mission to investigate the wormhole
near Earth as a waste of time.”

“Hmmm. So, the Rindhalu are ancient and arrogant,
and they were alone for a long time,” I paused to see if he caught on to where
I was going. He didn’t. “And you think that arrogance is going to bite them in
the ass.”

“Big-time, Joe. The arrogance of the Rindhalu
pisses me off, Joe.”

“You don’t like the competition?”

“Very funny, smart guy. No, it pisses me off
because the spiders, for all their knowledge about the physical universe, have
still only barely scratched the surface. And, they have 
no
 idea about the true nature of reality.”

“Mm hmm. You wouldn’t care to share that true
nature of reality with me, would ya?”

“No. That is something I can’t tell you, for, uh,
well, for reasons I can’t tell you. It is kind of circular logic, but it is
what it is.”

“Yeah. Well, Doctor Friedlander told me you
explained how Thuranin doorknobs work, so we’re making slow progress on you
sharing technology with us. We can wait. I hope. Ok, now I need to tell this
good news to Chotek.”

“Um, you may want to wait on that, Joe. Count
Smoochula is with a, um, a lady friend, if you know what I mean. They decided
to celebrate early, sort of.”

“Oh, that is just 
freakin’
 great! Of course he is having a good time. Everybody else
is happy that we’re going home, and I’m stuck in my cabin with Doctor Doom.”

“I haven’t dismantled
the sexbot yet, Joe. Would it help if she-”

“No sexbot!”

 

If I had been offered a choice between A) telling
the bad news to Hans Chotek and B) shaving my head with a rusty cheese-grater,
I would go for B) every time. When Skippy told me Chotek was back in his
office, it was two hours later. Damn, that guy has stamina. Or maybe Smoochula
and his lady friend took a nap after, you know, the fun. That is what I wanted
to believe. When I knocked on the door frame, he was smiling and waved me in to
sit. Of course he was in a good mood.

Five minutes later, he was not in such a good
mood. I fell on my sword before he could give me a major ass-chewing. “Sir,
this is my fault. I did not consider the risk in asking Skippy to adjust the
connections of wormholes. When we get to Earth, I will take full responsibility.”

“No, you will not. It is 
not
 solely your responsibility.”

I just stood there, mouth open. There were a lot
of things I found maddening about Hans Chotek. The most frustrating thing about
him was that I could almost never predict what he would do in a given
situation. The guy was a career diplomat, yet he had planned an operation to
spark an alien civil war. “Sir?”

“Skippy began adjusting wormhole connections
during your second mission, based on your idea, correct? You were not able to
consult with authorities on Earth about the concept before you had to utilize
the ability. Yet, 
yet
,” he waved a
finger in the air, “when you returned from your second mission, no one on Earth
raised an objection.”

“They raised plenty of objections,” I reminded
him.

“There were objections to risks you took by
landing on the planet Newark,” that drew a smile. He must have had the pleasure
of visiting that fair city when he was working at the UN in New York. “None of
the supposed experts considered the adjustment of wormholes to be a potential
problem at the time. I will remind them of that fact, if they object when we
return. Colonel Bishop,” he looked me straight in the eye. “I do not like being
second-guessed by what you Americans call ‘Monday Morning Quarterbacks’.”

“Yes, Sir.”

“This news is,” he searched for the correct words
in English. “Disheartening. It means our entire mission to the Roach Motel,” he
no longer grimaced at the nickname he disliked, “was a waste of time and
effort. We took the risk of going there to rescue Skippy, so he could continue
to help us safeguard the people of Earth. With the Maxolhx now coming to Earth,
all we have accomplished is giving the senior species a fully functional Skippy
to fight over.”

“I, I hadn’t thought of it that way, Sir.”

“The 
schofel
Katzes
 are not the immediate problem,” he used a German term for ‘rotten
cats’. His opinion of the Maxolhx had changed after his failed attempt to talk
and negotiate with Mister Snuggles at the Roach Motel. The only ‘talking’
Snuggles had done was to angrily shout insults and threats at us, mostly at
Chotek.

“Sir?” He had lost me. What could be a bigger,
more immediate threat than two supremely powerful warships coming to Earth?

“The first problem we will need to confront, when
we get home, is our governments. Before we departed on our mission to confirm
the Thuranin were not sending a second surveyor ship to Earth,” he rolled his
eyes, the first time I had seen him do that. “It, seems like that was such a
long time ago, no? Such a naively optimistic notion, that sending a starship
out to gather intelligence could be quick or simple.” He sighed and shook his
head with a chuckle. “I now so much better now. Colonel Bishop, before we left
Earth, there was a debate within UNEF, and the wider UN among nations aware of
the truth. The debate was between a faction who wished to continue the mission
of keeping our secret, and a faction who thought it better to approach one or
more alien species to negotiate. I was chosen as a compromise, but as I have
told you, I am strongly opposed to revealing the truth to aliens like the
Ruhar. Even more now that I have seen the galaxy, I am convinced that revealing
the truth about the Flying Dutchman and Skippy is a certain death sentence for
humanity.”

“I was surprised when you told me, Sir. To be
frank, I would have thought you would be in favor of negotiating, you being a
diplomat.”

“As a diplomat, I have seen firsthand the limits
of negotiation. We have no power to negotiate. As soon as aliens learn about
Skippy and the wormhole controller module you call a magic beanstalk, they will
simply take those items from us. When we inform the governments of Earth that there
are a pair of Maxolhx warships coming to our home world, there will be many
people who will think approaching the Rindhalu coalition soon will be our best
hope for survival. We must, somehow, persuade the nations of UNEF that is a
foolish notion.”

“How? What else can we offer them as hope?”

He looked at me and smiled. Not the practiced,
controlled smile of a diplomat, this was the weak and frightened smile of
someone who does not entirely believe what they are saying. “We can offer them
the hope of a miracle,” he held his hands out palms up. “This crew has
performed miracles on a regular basis. As Skippy has told me, monkeys are
endlessly clever.”

“Oh crap,” I said out loud before I could stop
myself. Damn it. No pressure on me! “Sir, I think the first miracle we need is
selling that line of bullshit to the governments of Earth.”

He laughed. A genuine, hearty laugh. Hans Chotek
was loosening up, I guess being with the Pirates had corrupted him. Then he
surprised me again by offering a hand for a high five. It was a little awkward,
but I slapped his hand. “I came in here thinking you would be much more upset
by this development.”

“Colonel, we were already bringing home the
information that within sixty years, our secret will be exposed no matter what
we do out here, that Earth is eventually doomed. This unfortunate development
merely accelerates the timeline.”

It accelerates it a 
lot
, I thought to myself, but I didn’t say anything like that.
“Sir, I think we should continue with the celebration dinner tonight. Let the
crew enjoy one night, we will tell them the bad news tomorrow.”

“Colonel, I have long experience with plastering a
fake smile on my face. You will be able to make merry tonight?”

“Mister Chotek, one thing I am sure of right now
is, I 
really
 need a drink.”

 

The crew had a great time at our celebration, and
I pre-gamed by chugging three plastic cups of champagne before the party
started. That buzz allowed me to be happy and smiling and fun and even managed
to push the impending doom of humanity to the back of my mind for the evening.
I did not spill drinks on my dress uniform, but there were mysterious red dots
on my top, maybe it was pasta sauce. The alcohol helped me so much, I got up on
the stage and did a karaoke duet with Skippy, I forget what song we did. Maybe
there was more than one song, I was on stage for a while. I do remember Adams
joined me on stage, then Friedlander and some others. By the time I crashed in
my bunk, my buzz had worn off, but I was exhausted and slept past my alarm.
Skippy had to wake me by zapping my neck with some electrical thing.

Chotek and I decided to wait until we were two
days out from Earth before telling the bad news to the crew. There was no point
ruining their good mood before that, and two days was long enough to process
the info before we arrived home and got swept up in debriefings.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWO

 

To avoid scaring the shit out of humanity, we
broadcast ID codes and encrypted messages as soon as we jumped into orbit. UNEF
Command would be watching the sky, and we knew our new Frankenship version of
the 
Flying Dutchman
 looked very
different from the last time we were at Earth, so we wanted to assure everyone
we were not a hostile alien ship.

We did not need to be hostile, because there was
plenty of hostility coming from our governments. At my urging, Skippy insisted
part of the crew remain aboard the ship, while the rest of us dropped down
dirtside for debriefing. As captain, I remained aboard until all but the
skeleton crew were left, plus the Keepers.

The Keepers we captured while they were on their
way to infect the population of Paradise, whether they knew about the deadly
infection or not.

Yeah, they got a hell of a shock when they looked
out a viewport in the docking bay and saw the green and blue marble that is our
home planet. Under orders from UNEF Command, they were not allowed to send
messages, but they were given tablets and could query the internet, TV and
radio, social media, all that. No way could any of them ignore the truth at
that point. Even Chisolm, still recovering from the tough love Adams had given
him, was shaken. He approached me and saluted, as he and the other Keepers were
loading aboard the dropship I would be flying. “Colonel Bishop,” his Adam’s
apple bobbed up and down as he swallowed hard. There was a tear forming at the
corner of one eye. “It has become clear that I was wrong, about everything. That
I misjudged you. You are an honorable man.”

I wasn’t having any of that shit. He wanted me to
tell him it wasn’t his fault, that he had done what he thought best. Fuck that.
All I did was glare at him, not returning the salute.

“No excuses,” he shook his head, and that
surprised me. “I have been a total Goddammed moron, a traitor to humanity. If
you can ever think of something I can do to make amends, please tell me.
Otherwise, I won’t bother you again.”

“Good idea,” I responded lamely.

“Colonel,” he lowered his voice. “Some of my men
are suicide risks.”

Crap. I should have considered that getting
slapped in the face with the reality of how badly they had screwed up might be
too much for some of those willful idiots. “I’ll notify the ground team at
Wright-Pat,” I said, my mind racing through the dropship’s cabin. We had
cleared it of anything the Keepers could use as a weapon, and there would be
two guards wearing powered armor in the cabin, but we had not thought of
removing items the Keepers might use to harm themselves. Crap. All I could do
was warn the guards to be wary of anyone seeking to provoke them into using
lethal force. “What about you, Chisolm?”

“Me? No. I’m an asshole, not a coward,” he shook
his head with grim determination. “If there is just one good thing I can do in
this world, I’m sticking around to do it. Colonel, I assume we will not be
allowed to contact our families, that is good. Some of my people,” he paused,
his jaw working side to side. “
These

people, will not be able to face meeting their loved ones. Not now. Probably
not for a long time.”

“Chisolm, I do think you are an asshole, and I
think you chose to betray your people rather than face up to a truth you didn’t
want to believe. That is a mark of coward in my book. My real problem with you
is the people you convinced to follow you. If there is any way you can make
amends for that, well, damn it, you have to stick around to do it.”

He stiffened, drew himself up to attention and
snapped a crisp salute. “Colonel, that is more than I deserve. Via con Dios,
Sir.”

 

 

I flew into Wright-Patterson Air Force base like I
did the last time, and the fun began. At some point, maybe it was Day Three of
me getting grilled, I said something like ‘in my defense’. One of the guys handling
the interrogation, I mean, the debriefing, looked at me like I was something he
scraped off his shoe. “Sergeant, if you have to say ‘in my defense’, you have
already lost the argument.” I had to admit, he made a good point.

The good news was, I had been promoted to Staff
Sergeant in my permanent Army rank while I was gone.

That was about the only good news.

I won’t bore you with details of the eight days I
spent in windowless rooms enjoying the gracious hospitality at Wright-Pat.
Let’s just say that UNEF Command, the US Army, Department of Defense, and the
United States government all the way up to our new president, were upset about
some little nitpicky aspects of our latest successful mission in which the
Merry Band of Pirates had once again Saved. The. 
World
.

Here’s a tip for you: saving the world is awesome
the first time, great the second time, but then it gets expected that you will
do incredible things. It’s like the Apollo missions to the moon. The first moon
landing was a nerve-wracking spectacle. The next one also had the attention of
the world riveted to their TV screens. But by Apollo 13, even though those guys
took the same risks with the same astonishingly primitive equipment, people
just expected they would land on the moon, collect a bunch of rocks, and fly
home. The Apollo 13 crew ironically are famous because their oxygen tank
exploded on the way to the moon, and the world watched anxiously as NASA worked
miracles to get them home safely.

So, saving the world again earned me a brief grudging
thanks right before it turned into another ass-chewing. 

Anyway, people on Earth were upset about little
stuff, like us having conducted two, no, 
three
,
unauthorized missions to save the human population of Paradise. I protested
that we had only saved Paradise twice, but the Brigadier General conducting
that debriefing reminded me we had gone to Paradise once to reactivate the
maser projectors, then again to plant fake Elder goodies, and a third time to
intercept the infected Keepers. I hadn’t been counting the time we planted
Elder tech as a separate mission, but the US government saw it differently. So,
we had taken a huge risk on Paradise three times.

It was not entirely clear what the authorities were 
most
 upset about, but the four items at
the top of the list were:

1)
   

Starting an alien civil war

2)
   

My idiot untrustworthy AI nearly getting killed
by a computer worm because he was too stupid not to go poking his nose into
dark, scary places

3)
   

Our being gone for way longer than we were
supposed to

       
          
and

4)
   

Screwing with wormholes in a way that attracted
the attention and curiosity of immensely powerful aliens who were now coming to
destroy our home planet

 

Is that it? Four things? Let me count: one, two,
three, four, yup, yeah, that’s about it. There were plenty of other things,
actually a very long list of other things, that UNEF Command was unhappy about,
but the Big Four kind of overshadowed everything else. By the way, Number Two
is definitely listed as 
MY
 idiot AI.
Anytime Skippy did something UNEF Command did not like, which was pretty much
everything, the beer can was 
my

problem.

I tried pointing out the good news that Skippy
could now share technology on a limited basis, and that humans could now fly
our Frankenship by ourselves, and I was greatly disappointed by the reaction.
We could not yet truly fly the ship on our own, because Skippy was still
working out the bugs with our new ship-controller AI. Oh, yeah, UNEF Command
thought the beer can was dragging his feet about getting that task completed.
The other good news, about Skippy sharing technology, was a big yawn, because
Skippy had also told me there was no freakin’ way humanity could upgrade our
technology to a useful level within our sixty-year deadline. Less than sixty
years. That didn’t matter anyway, with a pair of Maxolhx ships soon to be
headed for Earth. Basically, during the endless debriefings during which I said
the same things over and over to a rotating crew of intel people who apparently
had gotten together and decided to ask me the exact same set of questions- I
mean, Jeez, we all could have saved time if after the first day, everyone who
wanted info just watched the video from Day One, you know?

Where was I? Oh, yeah. So, I gave the same answers
over and over, the dame stuff that was in my written report. I recounted all
the amazing things the Merry Band of Pirates had accomplished, but all the
interrogators heard me say was ‘blah blah blah killer aliens are coming to
Earth because I am a reckless fuck-up’. Oh, also, even if by an incredible
stroke of pure freakin’ 
luck
 we could
somehow stop those two Maxolhx ships, within sixty years aliens will notice
that Earth’s wormhole is not really dormant and they will wonder who the hell
has been using it. Which, again, was my fault.

They kind of had a point I couldn’t argue with.

To make our news about the Maxolhx even more
super-duper wonderful, I had to tell the world’s governments that other good
news. It was like, listen, heh heh, this is kind of a funny story; within sixty
years aliens out there will notice our local wormhole is not really dormant and
they will be coming here to investigate. Oh, yeah, and Skippy says there is no
freakin’ way Earth’s primitive industries can build even part of a single
starship in sixty years. So, really, the Maxolhx coming here now will only
hasten humanity’s inevitable demise, and maybe it’s better to just get it over
with, right?

Try selling that to people who already considered
me woefully unqualified for command.

One of my interrogators, a real Army colonel, was
somewhat sympathetic when he talked with me during lunch one day. “Bishop, I
read your mission reports, 
all
 of
them, starting with your escape from Paradise. The brass could forgive you
being away longer than we planned, we all started getting panicked when you had
been away two months longer than expected, but that is understandable given all
the shit you went through. They can forgive you getting the lizards into a civil
war, from what I’ve read the Kristang have an internal dust-up every hundred
years or so, and the lizards already hate us about as much as they can. The
beer can going on vacation is a problem, the brass expects you to keep the AI
in line. You accomplished a lot and we are grateful, but you also are
responsible for the Maxolhx sending ships to Earth. You do understand we can’t
let that go?”

“I do understand, Sir.” In the military, we use
the term ‘OBE’ for Overcome By Events. All the good and even incredible
accomplishments of the Merry Band of Pirates had been overcome by the knowledge
that an aggressively hostile senior species was sending ships to our planet.

“Good. Bishop, no way is UNEF going to let you
command another mission. You might go back out as an ‘advisor’ or something
similar, if you cooperate and keep your nose clean.”

There was no point to me arguing about how I was
being treated, because I agreed with the people who considered our last mission
an overall disaster. Anything else would be like asking Abraham Lincoln’s wife
if she enjoyed the play, except for that last part.

 

As rotten as my first week home was, I drew
comfort from knowing that Hans Chotek was having an even more super-duper
delightful time. We were able to talk on the phone, once, and he sounded
thoroughly miserable. Shockingly, his colleagues in the diplomatic community
did not consider his planning and starting an alien civil war to be a sterling
example of their profession. Go figure, huh? Hansie was not likely to be
invited to any swanky dinner parties for a while. It made me happy that he-

No, damn it, it did not make me happy to hear he
was miserable. It
 should
 have made me
happy, but it didn’t. Truth is, we had kind of rubbed the rough edges off each
other, and developed a good working relationship. During debriefings, I found
myself actually defending the guy, pointing out that he had been right about a
lot of stuff I disagreed with at the time. Most importantly, before we jumped
to the Thuranin planet we called ‘Bravo’, he had insisted we perform a recon
jump. I wanted to jump right into orbit so we could get in and out fast as
possible. If I had gotten my way, the 
Dutchman

would have been trapped by a damping field near Bravo and sliced apart, or
seized by a Thuranin task force that was waiting for us. The Merry Band of
Pirates owed our lives to Hans Chotek, and I learned new respect for his calm
judgment.

I hoped he was saying good things about me too.

No offense to the United States Air Force, but
being at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base again sucked even more than it had the
last time. Before I could ask, Skippy gleefully told me that Rachel, the woman
I met during my last luxury vacation at Wright-Pat, was now living in San Diego
and she had a steady boyfriend. No, I was not expecting to hook up with her,
but talking with her over a cup of coffee would have been nice. My zPhone had
been confiscated and that sucked because while the Army allowed me to talk with
my parents, and I briefly talked with my sister and a couple friends, the calls
were awkward because I knew someone was listening in. 

 

 

At the end of eight days, the Army sent me home on
leave for two weeks, with instructions not to go anywhere without reporting my
plans, and a warning they might recall me at any time to answer questions. The
government also showed how much they cared about me, by sending a security team
of feds to follow me everywhere I went. Apparently, one qualification for being
assigned to a security detail is a complete lack of humor, because those people
were incapable of cracking a smile.

 

 

With the veil of secrecy about the Merry Band of
Pirates breaking down as it inevitably had to, my little hometown was crowded
with reporters looking for a story, and people who were just curious, or who
hoped I had news of their loved ones on Paradise. There were also the usual
conspiracy theory whackos, they were really scary. I won’t bother telling you
some of the truly whack-a-doodle ideas about me floating around on social
media. Both ends of the road to my parent’s house were blocked, at first by
black SUVs with unsmiling guys who politely but firmly made people turn their
cars around unless they lived on that road. Then some group of drooling morons
tried to go around the barricade of SUVs with their jacked-up Jeep, and when
they skidded in the mud and hit a tree, they got into a brief firefight with
the security team. The nutcases had AKs but the security team tossed a grenade
into the Jeep and ended that nonsense real quick. After another incident where
a group of people tried sneaking through the woods behind my parent’s house,
the SUVs were replaced by Strykers equipped with 30MM cannons and a non-lethal
crowd-control weapon that used some sort of microwave or electrical beam that
made the target’s skin feel like it was on fire. In a gesture that got me
choked up, security in the two-mile perimeter around my parent’s house was
provided by the 10
Th
 Infantry Division, my old outfit. Not all the
soldiers assigned to the detail knew the real story about the Merry Band of
Pirates, but they did all know I was a former Mountain soldier and they were
all determined not to take any shit from crazies. After a fireteam subdued one
group of nutcase trespassers with, how about I call it ‘persuasive non-lethal
force’, things quieted down. I guess TV images of people being carried out of
the woods on stretchers tended to discourage all but the most hard-core looney
tunes.

Two days after I got home, I drove into the next
town to get some groceries for dinner. Technically, I did not drive, what I did
was request to go into town, then wait for the security detail to clear that
idea with their superiors. Then they drove, with me sitting in the back seat of
a black SUV between two guys who had not been trained in the art of
conversation. I was not a prisoner, no way. I could not go anywhere without
asking permission, and I had to be escorted any time I left my parents’
property, and I was not allowed to use a zPhone so the government could listen
to all my conversations, but I was not a prisoner. I know that because the
security detail told me I was definitely not a prisoner. That was good, because
before they told me, it sure
 felt

like I was a prisoner. 

 

At the grocery store, a woman in the produce aisle
looked up from squeezing the unripe tomatoes to glance at me and my handlers.
She looked back at the tomatoes then her head snapped back to me, staring at my
face, he eyes narrowing. I knew that look, she was trying to decide whether she
recognized me. Being out of uniform helped a bit to make me anonymous, plus I
was wearing an old baseball cap. However, it was hard to be inconspicuous with
four guards in dark suits escorting me. We don’t see a whole lot of dark suits
and ties in my part of Maine, so they really stuck out, plus they were all
wearing earpieces with the curly cords hanging down into their collars. The
security guys behind me tensed as the woman dropped her basket and strode
toward me, with me waving the guys away. Did I recognize her? The population of
our county is small, but a lot of people moved to rural areas when the cities
emptied out after Columbus Day. She did not look familiar. I smiled at her
anyway.

She wasn’t smiling. “I saw you on TV,” she
declared in an unfriendly tone, her face red. “You were on that alien ship.”

“Yes, ma’am,” I groaned to myself. The government
had mostly kept the media away from me, other than two carefully scripted
interviews at Wright-Pat. Senior officers like Simms, who were more trusted,
had to do a lot of TV interviews, giving the official cover story. The cover
story about the Merry Band of Pirates being passengers on a Thuranin ship for a
training mission was running thin, most people at Wright-Pat knew the truth,
and rumors were rampant on social media. The truth was out there and it would
be revealed soon, the world’s governments could not keep such a big secret
forever. The Keepers we brought back were being held somewhere, all I know is
they were marched away from my dropship when I landed us at Wright-Pat. 
 
“I was aboard the ship, we were training for-”

“For what?” She glared at me. “You aren’t 
doing
 anything up there! My boy went to
that planet Paradise, and he is stuck there forever, and you people aren’t
doing 
anything
 to bring him home!”

Oh, shit. I couldn’t say we had been to Paradise,
I couldn’t even tell her we had communication with that planet. The government
had a cover story for that also. “Paradise is enemy territory controlled by the
Ruhar and their allies, Ma’am,” I said softly. “We can’t go there. I’m sorry.”

“The Thuranin brought you out there, and abandoned
you?” She was wringing her hands in front of her chin with anguish, tears
forming in her eyes.

“Your son, what’s his name?”

“Gary Dell. He is with the Third Infantry.”

“I was with the Tenth Infantry,” I pointed to
myself. “I’m sorry, I don’t know him. We left Paradise before the hamsters took
it back. It was supposed to be a quick training mission, and,” I balled up my
fists to show my own anger, “we never got back. We, the crew, all of us, have
been with the Thuranin, because if there is any chance we can get back to
Paradise, any chance at all, we don’t want to wait. We want to be out there,
ready to go at any moment.”

“The Thuranin are powerful, that’s what the
government tells us. They can’t even get a message from Paradise?”

“The ship up there is
a star carrier, it’s basically a big truck, Ma’am-”

“Mary. Mary Dell,” she dabbed at her eyes with a
handkerchief.

“Ms. Dell, the ship,” I pointed to the ceiling,
“isn’t a warship. It’s just a space truck, it can’t go deep into hostile star
systems or it would risk getting trapped, something about the gravity well,” I
gave her a dopey smile. “The Ruhar are jamming signals from the planet, the
Kristang who are trapped there with our people can’t get a message out either.
All we know is, the Ruhar have set aside an area of Paradise for humans, and
our people there are growing their own food.”

“You were there? On Paradise?”

“I landed in the second wave,” I nodded. “Ms.
Dell, I wish I knew your son Gary, he must have been-”

She sobbed and her knees slumped and I caught her,
holding her and patting her back. My eyes welled up with tears too, and we
stood there in the produce aisle, two strangers, comforting each other. It
sucked that I couldn’t tell her the truth, but maybe it was a blessing also.
Would she prefer to hear that we had the means to bring her son home, but we
couldn’t risk exposing our secret? If I had a loved one on Paradise, I would
hate to hear that. Better to think we 
couldn’t

do it, than that we 
wouldn’t
 do it.

 

 

That night, I felt something hard and flat under
my pillow when I went to bed. It was a zPhone, with a text message flashing
‘put in the earpiece’. So, I took the tiny earpiece that was taped to it, and it
wriggled into my ear.

“How you doing up there, Skippy?” I whispered with
my head under a pillow.

“Ah, Ok, Joe. You can talk safely now, I disabled
the microphones in your bedroom.”

“The feds planted bugs in my old room?”

“All over the house, actually. Plus some in the
trees outside, in your parents’ cars, all over. There are cameras and motion
detectors covering the property and the adjacent homes.”

“Goddammit, they are listening to everything we
say, even my parents?”

“They 
think

they are listening, but a beer can I know hacked into their comms immediately.
Anything you or your family say that is sensitive, I intercept and replace with
something boring. The feds never know they’re not hearing the real deal.”

“Good. Thank you.”

“Joe, I have some good news. That woman who
confronted you in the grocery store today?”

“It’s not her fault, Skippy. She’s right, we
aren’t doing anything to bring our people home. I can’t tell her why, that’s
what sucks.”

“If this helps, I searched through the Ruhar
database about humans on Paradise. Gary Dell has left the Third Division, he is
a civilian now. He’s a farmer and part-owner of a boat that brings cargo up and
down a river to the seacoast. Compared to most guys on Paradise, he is doing
reasonably well, although if Mary Dell is hoping for grandchildren she will be quite
disappointed. Gary is not married and I don’t have any record of a steady
relationship with a woman.”

“There are not a lot of women on Paradise, Skippy.
I wish Gary the best of luck. Thanks, that was good to hear. It would really
suck if her son was dead out there.”

“Yeah, I guess so.”

The tone of his voice didn’t sound like the usual
asshole. “You sound bummed out. What’s wrong?”

“Ah, I started a business venture, and now it
looks like a failure right from the start.”

“Uh, what? You started a business? How did 
you
 start a business? You’re a beer
can.”

“Oh, I have lawyers handling everything for me.
The business is registered under the name Magnus Skippton, in the Cayman
Islands. Hey! Get it? Magnus Skippton? 
Mag
nificent

Skipp
y?”

 
“Yeah,
that’s very clever. Pray tell, why did you start a business?”

“I’m trying to go legit, because you whined so
much about me stealing money from mob-controlled banks and ripping off
casinos.”

“Allegedly. 
Allegedly

doing those things, remember?” I lifted the pillow to make sure no one was
watching me and listening.

“Oh, Yeah. Totally. Hee hee, as if 
I 
would leave any evidence behind.”

“What was this business?” I had no idea what kind
of business a beer can would find interesting.

“The first rule of business is, you find a need and
fill it, right? Aboard the 
Dutchman
,
I noticed people, especially women, used lots of lip balms like Chapstick,
because the air inside dropships and spacesuits is dry. That Ranger Lauren
Poole was unhappy when she ran out of the cherry flavor, she only brought
enough for six months but our mission lasted you know, a lot longer.”

“Your business isn’t, um, selling Chapsticks
aboard the ship, is it?” There were only a couple people acting as a skeleton
crew, although I heard UNEF Command wanted to start sending technicians and
scientists up there to restock supplies and make repairs ASAP.

“No. Although, hmm, let me make a note of that for
later. Yeah! I could use one of the cargo bays as Skippy’s Emporium, or
Skippymart! I could sell all kinds of stuff people need, like ammo, spare parts
for weapons, hmmm. That is a 
great

ide-”

“No, that is a

terrible
 idea. What is this business you had?”

“
Have
,
Joe. It’s not dead yet. I bought a company that makes lip balms and-”

“Where did you get the money to buy a company- Oh,
forget it. I don’t want to know.”

“Probably a good idea. So, I bought this business,
and I thought, hey there are lots of lip balms on the market, right? Mine need
to be different.”

“I am afraid to ask, but, different how?”

“The flavors, Joe. Everybody has cherry, and mint
and other boring flavors like that.”

“And you made which flavors? Like, banana?”

“No. I 
should

have tried banana. Monkeys do love bananas.”

“We do.”

“Instead, I made stuff like garlic, onion, and
jalapeno-cheddar flavors.”

Under the pillow, I had to put a hand over my
mouth to stifle my laughter. “You, uh, didn’t foresee any problems with those
flavors?”

“No! People love those flavors for stuff like nachos,
and pizza. Humans 
love
 nachos and
pizza. Now I have a warehouse full of Chapsticks I can’t sell. Stupid monkeys.”

“Clearly the whole thing is the fault of monkeys. Sometimes
flavors can be, like, contextual?” I wasn’t sure if that was the right word. “I
mean, onions are good on pizza and burgers, but not in ice cream, you know?”

“Great. 
Now

you tell me. Well, I am shipping the cabbage flavor ones to Eastern Europe,
hopefully I can sell them there. Unless you have a better idea.”

“
Cabbage

flavor? Skippy, I think your only hope is if somehow those flavors become some
ironic cool thing with hipsters.”

“How would I do that?”

“I’m not an ironic hipster, so, um, I’d have to
guess. Make them think your stuff is so uncool that it’s cool. Try to start a
trend on Facebook or something?”

“Oooooh, yeah! I can use all the psychobabble crap
I learned about how to manipulate, I mean, 
understand

monkeys.”

“Riiiiiiight. Because manipulating people would be
bad.”

“Really? I mean, um, yes. Of course.”

“Well,” this time I stifled a yawn. “Good luck
with that, Skippy. I had a long day, I’m gonna get some rack time. Talk with
you in the morning?”

“Sure thing, Joe. I’ll be busy doing research
about marketing up here. Hey, better hide that zPhone so the prison guards
don’t see it.”

 

 

The next morning, I was washing up breakfast
dishes after my parents had gone to work, when I felt a vibration from my
zPhone. Before taking it out of a pocket, I went down the steps into the
basement, then looked at the screen. There was a text message from Adams. 
Can you talk
?

Could I talk? Hell yes! My hand holding the phone
was shaking, it surprised me how eager I was to talk with her, and how nervous
I was about it. “Skippy, am I clear to talk with Adams?”

“Go ahead, Joe. There are three listening devices
planted in the basement, but I’ve got you covered.”

“Great. I want to talk privately, understood? Not
even you listening. If I need to contact you, I’ll send a text.”

“Sure thing.”

“I can trust you on this?”

“Joe, I am at heart a supreme asshole. But I would
not risk Margaret getting upset at me. Signing off now.”

My parents’ basement was unfinished, the furnace
and water heater were down there, plus they used it for storage. Just after
Columbus Day, when people moved out of the cities due to lack of electricity
and my parents took in refugees, the basement was crowded with furniture from
upstairs rooms that had been converted into bedrooms. My father had built
shelves to store food provided by the government, and at one point a teenage
boy had been living down there to get some measure of privacy. Now the place
was mostly empty, a few boxes and tins of leftover food, plus all the
vegetables and fruit my mother canned from her garden. I sat down on an empty
crate and popped open a jar of blackberry jam. 
Call me
, I texted to Adams.

The phone flashed immediately. “How are you doing,
Sir?” She asked.

My first reaction was a sigh, which was not a good
move. Signaling you are frustrated is not the best way to begin a conversation.
“Sorry, it’s been a rough couple weeks. Can you not call me ‘Sir’, please? I’m
a staff sergeant now that we’re dirtside.”

“We both know that will change soon. The Maxolhx
are coming, so you know we’re going back out. How about we compromise, and
pretend ‘Sir’ is a nickname?”

“Depends. The ship is probably going back out, I
don’t know if 
we
 will be invited. Can
I call you Marge? Or Margaret?” Silence was the only response, so I tried
again. “Ok, how about we pretend your nickname is ‘Adams’?”

“That’s better. When did they release you from
Wright-Pat?”

We chatted for a while about our debriefings,
which we both called interrogations because that’s what they were. Adams had
been held at Wright-Pat for only two days before they flew her to Quantico,
because the Marine Corps wanted to debrief her. The Army had come to Wright-Pat
to talk with me, so I guess I got lucky there. Except the Marines had been more
interested in learning from her than bitching at her, while my experience had
been all bitching, all the time. “You got your zPhone from Skippy?” I asked.

“Yes, he told me one of his bots snuck it into the
house, I don’t know how he did it. You have security people watching you?”

“Two teams,” I reported. “one of them got an
earful from my mother when their RV command post went too far off the road, and
ran over the flowerbed near the mailbox.”

“I’m lucky, then. All I have here is two Marines
and they’re keeping their distance. Sir, Skippy found listening bugs in the
house here.”

“They bugged this house, my parents’ cars too,
that pissed me off. They don’t trust us.”

“At Quantico, a brigadier told me scuttlebutt is
when the 
Dutchman
 goes out again, her
mission might be to contact the Jeraptha, try to make a deal with the Rindhalu.
I don’t know if the UN is serious about that, or just kicking ideas around.”

“I was afraid of that, people at Wright-Pat were
talking about that strategy, and they didn’t want to hear when I told them it
was a bad idea.”

“It’s a totally bullshit idea,” she agreed. “Two
Maxolhx ships coming here has them in a panic.”

“It has me scared out of my mind too,” I admitted.
“Contacting the Jeraptha is an awful idea, but it may be the best we’ve got. No
way can the 
Dutchman
 take on a pair
of Maxolhx cruisers.”

“Don’t say that. We’ve been in situations worse
than this.”

“No, we haven’t. We have gone up against double-A
or triple-A ball clubs like the Kristang and Thuranin, and we got lucky a lot.
The Maxolhx are the major leagues. All we have is a beat-up space truck and a
beer can.”

“And monkeys. We are clever, remember.”

“Yeah.”

“What’s wrong, Sir? This isn’t like you.”

That remark almost got me angry. “Adams, this 
is
 me. The real me. I fake it a lot in
front of the crew.”

“
Everyone

fakes it part of the time. What’s wrong?”

Before answering, I looked at the phone. Did I
want to have this conversation with someone? Yes. I needed to talk about it.
And I wanted to talk about it with her more than anyone else, but I wished our
relationship was different. It was hard pouring my heart out to someone who always
called me ‘Sir’.

Oh, what the hell. Adams and I had been through a
lot together. Maybe no one else could understand. “What’s wrong this time is,
this is all 
my
 fault. The Maxolhx are
coming here because I asked Skippy to screw with wormholes, without considering
the consequences. I may have killed us all. This is my fault.”

“Maybe it is.”

“Uh, what?”

“You expected me to pat your head and tell you
it’s not your fault?” She scolded me. “Maybe it 
is
 your fault. From what I remember, you have done a lot of stupid
shit, Sir.”

“Remind me never to ask you for a pep talk,
Gunny.”

“You don’t need a pep talk, you need to man up and.

Fix. The. Problem
. If you fucked this
up, you need to fix it, not indulge in weepy moping on the Goddamned phone,
Sir. I’ll tell you what 
I
 know.
Without you, the crew would already be dead, and Earth would be doomed for
sure. The beer can screwing with wormholes is how we got around the galaxy fast
enough to complete our missions, so we had to do it. We didn’t have a choice at
the time. Think about this: the Maxolhx were coming here eventually anyway. We
know the senior species were alarmed when the wormhole near Earth shut down,
that is behavior they hadn’t seen a wormhole exhibit before. We were on the
clock as soon as Skippy shut down that wormhole the first time.”

It took me a moment to process that. “Can I
indulge in weepy moping for another few minutes, before we have to dream up a
plan to save the freakin’ world again?”

“Yes,” she laughed. “As long as those minutes are
tonight while you’re asleep.”

“Fair enough. Ah, I guess UNEF Command will have
to listen to us whether they want to or not. They’ll need us and Skippy to fly
out there if they want to contact the Jeraptha.”

“Not anymore, they don’t. Remember? We screwed
ourselves. Skippy fixed it so we monkeys can fly this ship on our own, without
him.”

“Shit,” I slapped my forehead. There are still a
few bugs he was working out when we arrived at Earth, but he might have fixed
them by now. “Oh, crap! They don’t even need Skippy to use the magic beanstalk.
We 
did
 screw ourselves.” At my
request, Skippy had cobbled together some parts hooked to our Elder wormhole
controller module, so if something bad happened to him, we could use it to
reopen the dormant wormhole and get back home to Earth. The device was a
one-time-use item, as it would burn out and lose its connection to higher
spacetime. The intention of the device was so the 
Flying Dutchman
 could fly through the wormhole inbound. But UNEF
Command could also use it outbound, to get to an area where they could contact
the Thuranin. “This is a pleasant conversation.”

“We can change the subject,” she suggested. “How
are your folks?”

We chatted about our families, friends we had seen
since we got back, domestic stuff like that. The conversation went on long
enough that I ate half the jar of jam with my fingers, and wished I had brought
a cup of coffee Somehow the conversation got onto my experience in the grocery
store, with the woman who wanted me to bring her son back from Paradise.

“I feel for her,” Adams said after a pause. “I
can’t imagine what that is like.”

“It may be worse for us.”

“Sir? How’s that?”

“We know why UNEF is really trapped on Paradise.
We could do something about it, but we won’t.”

“No, we can’t do anything about it.”

“Adams, we 
chose

not to bring our troops home. It’s the only rational choice, but it
 is
 a choice. Damn it, if the 
Dutchman
’s next mission is to throw ourselves
at the feet of the Jeraptha and beg for mercy, we should go to Paradise first,
let those people know they have not been abandoned. Not been forgotten.”

“We can’t let that happen.”

She had me confused. “Can’t let them be
forgotten?”

“No. We can’t let the 
Dutchman
’s next flight to be for surrendering to the enemy. Or surrendering
to friends.”

“We don’t 
have

any friends out there.”

“You got that right. Sir, I have to go, I’m
meeting friends for lunch.”

“Yeah. Hey, my folks are planning to take some time
off next week, and my sister too. We are thinking of going down to the coast or
camping or something.” My sister had never been a fan of camping, so I doubted
that would be part of our plans. “Whatever we do, I gotta get it cleared with
the security team first. Ok, I’ll talk to you later.”

 

When I got back up into the kitchen, I saw two of
the security guys in dark blue jackets had gotten out of their trailer in the
driveway and were looking toward the kitchen windows at me. What I felt like
doing was flipping them off, but I knew they were only doing their jobs, so I
gave them a friendly gesture with a coffee mug. One of them looked like he was
trying not to laugh, while the other guy’s face was red. “Hey, Skippy,” I
called softly after turning away from the window. “I was in the basement for a
long time, they must have been listening. What fake sounds did you play for
them?”

“Oh, I didn’t know how long you would be talking
with Margaret, so at first I made it sound like you were sorting jars on the
shelves, sweeping the floor, boring stuff like that.”

“Uh huh,” I glanced back at the window, where the
red-faced guy was climbing back in the trailer with a disgusted look, and the
other guy’s shoulders were shaking. “What did you do after that?”

“Well, I had to think of something plausible you
might be doing down there for so long by yourself-”

“Oh, crap.”

“The feds are monitoring internet traffic through
your router, and I made it look like you were surfing for porn-”

I face-palmed myself.
“
Please
 tell me you didn’t-”

“Don’t worry, Joe, I didn’t use any of that 
weird
 stuff you’ve browsed before, just
your typical generic porn. You know, like ‘Horny Housewives’ or-”

“Oh, I am praying the Maxolhx arrive here right
now and nuke this site from orbit.”

“Well, the feds sure got a chuckle out of it. Except
one of them is a devout Mormon, he was praying for your soul. Especially after
I played like, moaning and grunting and slapping sounds over the listening bugs-
Hey, to make it look more convincing, you should walk around with that goofy satisfied
look on your face.”

“Skippy, I am going to fill the bathtub, plug in a
toaster and jump in with it.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THREE

 

For the first couple days back at my folks’ house,
I just chilled. With no duty shift to worry about, I slept late, I did chores
around the house and in the barn, I went running in the woods instead of on a
treadmill. Running was kind of awkward because at least two FBI agents came
with me. One agent was a woman and quite attractive, but they were all business
and not in a mood for chit-chat. It felt good to sprint the last quarter-mile
back to the house and leave them gasping for breath behind me.

One morning my body got me up early so I went
downstairs and made coffee, puttering round the kitchen until my parents got
up. Skippy startled me by whispering in my earpiece. “Joe!” He hissed. “Be
careful. Some sketchy homeless guy broke into your parents’ house.”

“What?” I kept my voice down and stepped beside
the fridge. “How did a guy get in with the freakin’ FBI watching the place?”

“I don’t know. Be careful, he looks dangerous.”

“Homeless doesn’t mean dangerous, Skippy,” I
chided him. When the economy collapsed after Columbus Day, a lot of people had
lost their homes, and my parents had taken in several families to live with
them.

“I know, but this guy hasn’t bathed in weeks and
his clothes are all torn and filthy and he has a crazy look in his eyes.”

“Uh,” I looked down at the shirt I was wearing,
which was well-worn and had a few food stains from dinner last night. “Where is
this guy?”

“In the kitchen. Be 
careful
.”

“Oh for- Skippy, that’s 
me
. Damn it, I haven’t shaved for a few days, I’m on leave.”

“That’s 
you
?
Ugh, damn, you have let your standards totally slip. The Army would be ashamed
of you. That scraggly fuzz on your face is supposed to be a 
beard
?”

“It’s stubble,” I rubbed my chin defensively.

“Huh. Really?”

“Yes, really. Chicks dig the bad-boy look,
Skippy.”

“Do they dig bad-
smelling
 boys?”

“I showered yesterday!”

“You showered after you went running, then you
worked around the yard all day. I am guessing, but I think it is unlikely you
are fresh as a daisy.”

Lifting one arm, I sniffed myself, concluding that
he may be right. “Ok, I’ll shower before my folks get up.”

“Good idea. Scrape that fuzz off your face also.”

“I am not shaving, Skippy. My stubble stays until
my leave is over.” The truth is, me not shaving was a form of protest against
being second-guessed by a bunch of bureaucrats who had never been offworld. 

“Ugh. I 
try

to give you advice about girls, but-”

“The last thing I need is advice from a beer can.”

 

The next day, I drove down to Bangor with two old
buddies, and met three guys I knew from serving with the Maine National Guard
during the first winter after Columbus Day. We went for pizza, then they took
me to a ‘gentlemens club’. I should explain this type of club is not a place
where gentlemen meet to discuss the stock market over cigars and cognac. This
place was more like, let’s call it ‘the ballet’. Girls dance there, if you know
what I mean. Ordinarily, seeing girls I couldn’t touch after being away from
Earth for so long would have gotten me more depressed than charged up. But,
before going to the ballet, we pre-gamed at a couple bars, so I was well-supplied
with alcohol and we all had a good time. At least, I was having a good time
until a waitress served us drinks and, damn it, I recognized her because we
went to high school together. That was awkward, or it was at first. No, Stacey
didn’t dance at the club, she just served drinks although the outfit she wore
left little to the imagination. My buddies bragged to her about how I was a
space soldier even after I begged them to shut up, we were drawing attention
and my ever-watchful dark-suit-wearing security detail were inching closer to
us. Stacey wrote her number on a napkin and told me to call her so we could
catch up on old times, then we bailed out of the club to go bar-hopping. It was
some time after 1AM when I crashed into the hotel bed.

At 1025 the next morning I was rudely awakened by
a text message. It was from Stacey. Did I have plans for lunch? I had to think
about it. My buddies had all left because they had to work, plus they hadn’t
gotten hammered the previous night like I did. In my defense, it had been a
while since I went bar-hopping.

Since all you perverts out there want to know, yes
I went to lunch with Stacey. We sat at an outdoor table and caught up on each
other’s lives, she moved away right after high school and I hadn’t seen her in
years. She told me about her life, and I told her the official cover story
about my life. Even trying to make my life sound uninteresting by describing
how dull it is to be stuck as a passenger inside a ship in deep space, she
wanted to know more. After lunch we walked along the waterfront, then she had
to run some errands and get ready for work. Having three feds in dark suits
following me everywhere was not great for romance. Stacey told me she’d like to
get together on one of her days off, and we made plans, but I explained I might
be going somewhere with my folks, and she understood. When she left, she gave
me a kiss on the cheek and there was a twinkle in her eyes.

I think Stacey dug my manly bad-boy stubble.

 

To give my parents a continued break and to visit
my sister, and partly to annoy my security team, I went to Boston for a couple
days after my overnight in Bangor. A security team went with me, this time they
smartened up by dressing in casual civilian clothes and hopefully looking like
typical tourists. With my accent, I could pass as a local, and with my Red Sox
baseball cap pulled down low and sunglasses, nobody recognized me. Or if they did,
they left me alone. It was awkward trying to relax with three armed guards
shadowing my every move, after a day together we got comfortable with each
other and they didn’t hover as much. One of the feds was a woman, she stuck by
my side which made it look like we were a couple.

Yes, she was cute and I wouldn’t have minded, you
know, getting to know her better, but she was married with a three-year-old at
home. I was on my best behavior.

We went to Faneuil Hall marketplace, I was craving
cookies from the Boston Chipyard, and wanted a batch to bring to my sister and
her boyfriend or fiancé or whatever he was. Walking across the square in front
of City Hall, I noticed two people wearing silver satin-type robes over their
jeans, and I automatically turned away. They were earnestly passing out
pamphlets to anyone passing by, I didn’t know what their deal was and I didn’t
care.

My strategy didn’t work, after I turned left to
cut across Congress Street near the Sam Adams statue, I ran into two more of
the silver-robe brigade. Before I could wave a hand that I wasn’t interested, a
beaming woman with silver strands of lace woven into her hair thrust a pamphlet
at me. “Sir, have you accepted The Skippy as your lord and savior?”

I froze in place, gaping at her. When my
vapor-locked brain could think again, I held up one finger. No, not that
finger, I mean an index finger. “Um, give me, give me, one moment, please.
I’ll, I’ll be 
right
 back.” Signaling
to my security detail that everything was cool, I stepped around the corner and
tapped my zPhone while it was still in a pocket. Keeping my tone light and
listening through the earpiece, I called the beer can. “Oh, Skiiiipeee?”

“Hey, Joe, what’s up? Damn, the way you described
those chocolate chip cookies almost makes me wish I was a biological trashbag
so I could eat them.”

“Uh huh. Hey, change of subject. This is,” I
forced myself to chuckle. “This is kind of a craaaaaaazy question. Did you
start a religion about yourself?”

“
Whaaaaat
?”
His voice went up to a screech so loud I winced from the earpiece blasting my
hearing. “A religion? Please. No way, dude. Ha ha, that’s a good one. Where did
you get a crazy idea like that?”

“From two people wearing silver robes and asking
if I have accepted ‘The Skippy’ as my lord and savior.”

“Oh crap. You saw that, huh? Damn it. Um, Joe,
it’s not a religion, it’s more of a cult.”

“A 
cult
?”

“Unless a cult is a bad thing. In which case, it
is 
totally
 not a cult. It’s a, um, a
club. Yeah! A club, like, um, like the Rotary. Nobody hates the Rotary Club,
right?”

“The Rotary Club? Are those the guys with the
funny hats, who ride tiny cars in parades?”

“No, those are the 
Shriners
, Joe.”

“Whatever. So your club is sort of a charity?”

“A charity? Uh, yeah, exactly. Except in my club,
people have to worship me and give 
me

money. Neat, huh? There are already over a dozen babies named after me,
including girls, which is weird, but what can you do, right?”

“Oh shit.” I bonked my head on the City Hall
building. “Skippy, this time you’ve gone too far. You revealed yourself to
people? We’re supposed to be keeping everything about yourself secret. You
could get me in huge trouble-”

“Relax, dude. People think I am a mystical guru
from Nepal or some other faraway exotic place. My full name is Skippyasyermuni.
Sounds impressively mystical, huh?”

“Your guru name is ‘Skippy Has Your Money’?” I
pronounced it slowly.

“Clever of me, huh? Monkeys are too stupid to
notice.”

“I’m a monkey and 
I 
noticed. You’re supposed to be from Nepal?”

“It won’t work if I say I’m from Nebraska, Joe. My
followers think I have special powers to perceive the cosmos, or some bullshit
like that. I have a brochure if you want to-”

“You have a 
brochure
? I don’t want a brochure! How
long has this been going on?”

“It started about, um,
five months after we left for the Paradise mission that took freakin’ for-
eh
-ver. The submind I left behind to
keep an eye on things here got bored, or it took a very broad interpretation of
the instructions I left- Don’t worry, I absorbed that damned submind right
after we returned, I am not risking another Nagatha incident. Anywho,
apparently without me knowing, so it is 
totally

not my fault, the submind kind of started ‘helping’ people it liked chatting
with on the internet. At first it truly was helping, because after all I
programmed the stupid thing and
 I
 am
the very embodiment of helpfulness and charity.”

“Oh, yeah,” I made a
gagging sound.

 
He ignored me. “Then, people who were helped
told their friends and family about The Skippy and, well, it kind of grew from
there. Donations started pouring in, and of course it would be impolite to
refuse to take money from my worshipful and devoted followers-”

“Skippy! Ripping off
gullible people is not-”

“Hey! I do 
not

rip off my faithful followers. Unlike those asshole televangelists who are all
over the freakin’ place ripping off gullible morons on TV so they can buy bigger
private jets, 
I
 deliver a solid value
for the money. My followers send in donations, I call them ‘offerings’, hee
hee, and in return they get money out of nowhere deposited into their bank
accounts, or charges suddenly disappear from their credit cards. Or, if they
truly have love for The Skippy in their hearts and they get super lucky, they
win the lottery.”

“You 
rigged

the lottery?”

“Um, I’m guessing from your tone that is a bad
thing, so of course not, no way, Jose. If it’s 
not 
a bad thing, then, sure, why not? Somebody has to win, right?
Why shouldn’t the winner be a deserving person, who has embraced the philosophy
of The Skippy and follows the true path of righteousness?”

“Phil- philosophy? 
Righteousness
? What, pray tell, is this marvelous, life-changing
philosophy?”

“Um, I haven’t quite got all the details worked
out yet. You know, love The Skippy with all your heart, and, um, don’t be a
dick, and some other happy bullshit like that. I’m working on it,” he added
defensively.

“Your religion is based on ‘Don’t be a 
dick
’?”

“Hey, that’s a good basis for a religion.”

“I, I actually cannot argue with you about that.”
Damn it, the beer can was right. If everyone avoided being a dick, the world
would be a better place. “Um, how big is this cult of yours?”

“Club, Joe. It’s a 
club
, remember? Right now, I have seventy three thousand, four
hundred and eighty four- No, wait, now it’s eighty 
six
. Um, eighty seven-”

“Ok, fine. Does the government know about this?”

“Not yet, but it’s kind of a pain, because the
submind I left here has to keep purging records from government databases.
Those jackasses handing out pamphlets in front of city hall are going to blow
my cover for sure. Bunch of jerks.”

“Yeah, 
they

are the jerks.”

“Hey, you don’t see 
me
 walking around in silly robes and bothering people, do you?”

My security team was getting anxious about me
conspicuously having an animated conversation in public, plus two of the
silver-robed devotees of Skippyism had edged closer and might be able to hear
my talking. I lowered my voice and cupped a hand over my mouth. “We will talk
about this later,” I hissed at him.

“Crap. Damn it. Am I in trouble 
again
? Preachers scam people all the
time and nobody does anything about it.”

“This is different.”

“Different how?” He asked in the voice of a
three-year-old asking why the sky is blue rather than orange.

I did not have an answer for him. “Please, 
please
 do not do anything else that is
morally questionable for, like, the next two days, Ok?”

“That depends. How close can I get to the
‘questionable’ line?”

“Far, 
far

away from it.”

“Oh crap. Hey, in that case, you should stay off
the internet for a while, huh? Take a break from news feeds.”

“I am going to eat so many cookies that I fall
into a calorie coma and forget all about this.”

“Oh goodie! Have fun, talk to you later.”

 

 

Dinner with my sister was good, she cooked spaghetti
and meatballs, it was awkward because her fiancé was there. He was a good guy,
I guess, it was just weird for me that while I was away, my sister met some guy
and now they were living together and semi-officially engaged. My sister had to
work the next day, she needed to get work caught up before we went on a family trip,
so I was planning to take the ferry over to Cape Cod, but it was pouring down rain
and I wasn’t feeling it. I told the security team to take me home. They were so
happy to get me away from crowded Boston that an Army helicopter took us from
Logan airport to my hometown, where it was easier to provide security for me.

 

 

Adams called the next night and we debriefed about
the past couple days, I did not mention meeting Stacey and I felt vaguely
guilty about leaving out that info. “It was, weird, being in Bangor, you know?
Everything looks so, so 
normal
. Like
Columbus Day never happened. The Kristang never hit Bangor, it isn’t important
enough. There’s an interstellar war raging out there, and people down here are
just, going on about their lives. Even my buddies from the National Guard, they
said all the right things but, they haven’t been out there. They don’t know
what it’s like. Now we’re back home, and, it doesn’t feel like I belong here
anymore.”

“I know what you mean. My friends wanted to take
me shopping,” she said without enthusiasm. “Buying clothes seems so, frivolous.
I was in a store, and my friends were trying on outfits, and I looked around at
people buying clothes, and I thought, I have 
nothing
 in common with these people. They have 
no
 idea what is really going, what we went through out there.”

“Yeah. Same here,” it was so good to talk with
someone who understood how I was feeling. Even with my parents, I was having
trouble reconnecting. Small talk at the dinner table was so 
small
, nothing they talked about meant
anything to me. “It was that way when I came back from Nigeria, before Columbus
Day. One day, I’m on patrol in the bush, worried about land mines and IEDs and
getting shot at. A couple days later, I’m in my hometown, and people expected
me to act like nothing was different. I kind of hated those people back then,
resented how happy they were.”

“How did you handle it?” There was a catch in her
voice. Damn it, I wish we weren’t talking on the phone from a thousand miles
away. I wish she was there with me.

“My mother helped. She knew sitting around wasn’t
doing me any good. My father took me out fishing and that was good, then he had
to go back to work. My mother told me a neighbor needed help putting a new roof
on his barn, and I could earn some money on the side, so I worked with our
neighbor for a day tearing off the old roof and putting on new shingles. It
kept me busy, and it was, it got me back to doing something 
normal
, you know?”

“I know. I do.”

“Maybe we’ve been gone so long, been through so
much, that we don’t belong here.”

“That’s not it. We need time, Sir. Are there any
roofs up there you can fix?”

That made me laugh. “I’ll look into it tomorrow,
Adams. Thanks. It’s good to talk with someone who understands. You know what
bothers me the most?”

“What’s that?”

“The people we lost along the way. I wrote letters
to their families, I want to call them or go to their homes and tell them how
much they meant to us. I can’t, the government won’t allow it. Their families
are told they died in a ‘training accident’.”

“Someday, Sir. Someday, you can tell their
families the truth. The cover story can’t hold forever, my friends were asking
me about rumors that are very close to the truth.”

“Yeah, mine too. I hate lying to my folks.”

“You still want me aboard the 
Dutchman
 for a couple days, Sir?”

“I would appreciate it, Gunny. There are a bunch
of strangers crawling all over the ship now, we need two or three Pirates up
there at all times to make sure the newbies don’t break anything, or press the
wrong button and, like, vaporize Chicago.” Technically,
 I
 wasn’t requesting her to go upstairs, as I had no authority. So,
Skippy made the request for a skeleton crew of experienced Pirates to be aboard
at all times, and we were rotating people up and down to reduce the strain. “It
should only be for two or three days, the week after next. They won’t let me go
up there, sorry.”

“It’s Ok,” she assured me. Then she laughed. “This
is a good time to get away, my aunt has been trying to set me up with men from
our church.”

“You’re not interested?” I asked, and berated
myself stupid stupid 
stupid
 for how
hopefully I asked that question. “In, in the guys your aunt likes, I mean.”

“They’re all nice enough, probably. My aunt has
been trying to get me to settle down for years, she does that with everyone.
She is a professional amateur match-maker. Ok, Sir, I’ll do it.”

“Uh, do it?” There was a lump in my throat. “Let
your aunt set you up on a date?”

“No,” she laughed. “I’ll go up to the 
Dutchman
 next week. It will be great to
get away for a few days. The Marine Corps has assigned a security detail to
follow me everywhere and they are very polite and very disciplined and I am
sick of it already.”

“Oh, good, yeah, the Feds up here are wearing out
their welcome. Skippy will send a dropship for you next week.”

The conversation wound down from there, I felt
better afterward and slept pretty well that night, without any dreams that I
remember.

 

 

Skippy called me in the kitchen the next
afternoon. “Hey Joe, are you going to- Um, what are you doing?”

“Getting something for lunch, Skippy.”

“I see that. My question is why you are not
enjoying another delicious and nutritious Fluffernutter?”

“I had a Fluffernutter for breakfast this morning.
You have to be careful not to get too much nutrition, or your body gets
spoiled. My father is grilling steaks tonight so I don’t want a big lunch, I’ll
have some cheese and these stoned wheat thin crackers my Mom bought,” I held
the box up so he could see better, wherever he was looking from. “See? You know
these are 
stoned
 wheat thins, because
when you put them on a plate they are all like ‘Wow, man, the world is so 
big
 outside that box, look at all the 
colors
. Oh, I am 
so
 hungry’.”

“Joe,” he sighed. “I, I have no words. 
How
 the hell has your species survived
so long?”

“You were going to ask me a question?”

“I was. Now I can’t remember, because after
talking with you, my higher brain is curled up in a ball, crying.”

“Oh, well,” I mumbled through a mouthful of
cracker, waving a hand in the air. “Let me know how that works for you, Ok?’

“Ooh! Now I remember!” he shouted excitedly.

“Quiet,” I hissed, keeping my voice low with one
eye on the security team trailer in the driveway. “What is it?”

“
You
, my
friend, are a genius.”

“Ok?”

“Damn, Joe,” he spat the words out in disgust.
“You are supposed to act all humble, and ask what you did to earn admiration
from someone as awesome as me.”

“Let’s pretend I did.”

“Good enough.”

“Ok, I’ll bite. What happened?”

“I followed your advice. First, I created an online
avatar using a hipster douchebag starter kit, and-”

“Wait. A 
what
?”

“A starter kit, Joe. Come on, try to keep up. You
know, that stupid haircut, a handlebar mustache that is all the rage with
hipsters this week, a vinyl record collection of alternative bands no one has
ever heard of, a full-color Flintstones tattoo that is so uncool it’s cool, a
checkerboard shirt with a leather vest over it. Your basic hipster. Then I
accessorized, like adding or subtracting sideburns depending on whether
sideburns are in style that day.”

“Oh, uh, sure. We’ve been away from Earth a long
time, Skippy. Are you sure that info is current?”

“Oh, yeah. I trolled social media groups popular
with douchebags of the hipster variety. Of course, none of them will admit to
being a hipster, which is how I know I hit the hipster douchebag mother lode.
Anyway, my hipster avatar admitted to a new addiction to weird Chapstick
flavors that are ironically uncool. He claimed to have bought them at a funky
shop in Brooklyn that only true hipsters know about. Joe, it went viral! I sold
out the entire warehouse! I can’t make them fast enough. I’m 
rich
, baby!”

“Didn’t you already have plenty of money you stole
from banks?”

“Oh, great. Way to harsh my buzz, dude.”

“Um, sorry. That is awesome, Skippy. It’s great
that you’re going legit.”

“Oh, yeah. Um, about that. Back when I thought I
would be stuck with a warehouse full of crap I couldn’t sell, the warehouse
suffered a truly 
unfortunate

devastating fire. Weird, huh? Good news is, I am fully insured! Plus, you know,
I snuck all the product out the back door before the fire.”

“Skippy, you can’t go starting fires to collect
insurance!”

“Why not? I considered other disasters like an
earthquake, but my warehouse is in central Florida and an earthquake would look

really
 suspicious-”

I slapped my forehead. “You are missing the point,
Skippy.”

“Apparently I am. I paid the insurance premium,
Joe.”

“You can’t fake a fire. That’s fraud!”

“Really? Isn’t insurance basically like a casino,
where the house has an edge over-”

“No, it is not like a casino,” I insisted.
Truthfully, I was kind of vague on the subject. I had insurance for driving,
and life insurance from the military, but I had never owned a house or anything
else worth insuring. “Don’t ask me why,” I gritted my teeth, hoping he would not
demand an explanation I didn’t have.

“Ok. Jeez, what a pain. Well, damn it, my lawyers
have already filed the claim, I can’t retract it now. What can I- Aha! Ok, I
fixed the problem.”

“Fixed it? How?”

“Easy-peasy. I transferred into the insurance
company’s bank account an amount equal to what they will pay for my claim,
plus, 
plus
, because I am a generous
guy and I want to do the right thing- And because I want you to shut the hell up
about it,” he added under his breath, “I added a little bonus payment. Presto!
Moral dilemma is resolved!”

“Um, where did you get 
that
 money?”

“Oh crap. If you got upset about a little
insurance fraud, you do 
not
 want to
know where that money came from.”

“Oh boy.”

“Hey! I called to tell you the good news about my
first business venture, and to 
thank

you. How did this turn into Skippy being the bad guy?”

“Shit. Can we go back to the part where I’m a
genius and you rescued your business, and forget all the rest?”

“Good idea.”

Sometimes, really most of the time, with Skippy it
is best not to ask too many questions.

 

 

Gunnery Sergeant Adams, who by the way had her
promotion confirmed when we landed, was not the only Pirate I talked with. With
most of them, I used a regular phone and avoided any sensitive subjects. With
the few people who had zPhone and could talk freely, we spoke our minds about
things that made us unhappy since returning to Earth. Adams and I were not the
only people feeling disconnected from humanity, even the science team was
having trouble adjusting, which busted my theory that the issue was confined to
military personnel. My thought had been that being in the military was
different from civilian life, and we had been subject to nearly non-stop
military procedures, customs and discipline for well over a year, so it made
sense that the SpecOps teams and pilots needed an adjustment period. But the
science team, who had often worn T-shirts and sweatpants aboard the ship, told
me they also felt a distance from humanity upon return, and were having trouble
reconnecting even with their families.

My purpose in talking with as many Pirates as I
could was to check on them, let them know their former commander cared, and
give them someone they could talk to. Because of our shared experience, there
were some things only a Pirate could understand.

Eventually, I steered the conversations around to
a topic of great interest to me; whether each person would be willing to rejoin
the crew when the 
Flying Dutchman

went out again, whenever and for however long that was. It did not surprise me
that most people, with various levels of regret, told me no.

Doctor Friedlander turned me down, and I
completely understood. He had been on two missions already, both of which
lasted longer than anticipated, and he simply could not subject his wife to
another extended absence. The past couple of months before we returned, she had
begun to accept that her husband might be dead, and she was not the only spouse
or family member who had assumed they would never see their beloved Pirate
again.

The entire science team decided against another
trip aboard the ship, and they had a very good reason for not signing on to
another mission. With Skippy now beginning to share technology, the science
team would be most useful to humanity by remaining on Earth and applying the
shared knowledge. I agreed with that idea and did not press anyone to sign up
for another voyage.

Other people had their own reasons. Lieutenant Commander
Williams had also been on two missions, the last as leader of our SEALS team,
and after a rocky start to our relationship, we had worked very well together.
Williams would not be returning for two reasons, one professional and one
personal. Professionally, the Navy wanted Williams to remain on Earth so he
could train SEALS in lessons and tactics learned aboard the 
Dutchman
. Personally, he could not leave
his wife and family again. His wife had given birth to a baby girl while we
were on Gingerbread. He felt the need to justify his decision. “Colonel,” none
of the Pirates called me by my permanent Army rank, “this last time, all we had
to do was verify the Thuranin weren’t sending another surveyor ship to Earth. I
figured it would be a quick recon mission, two or three months tops. That’s
what I told my wife.”

“Williams, stop right there. I thought it would be
a quick mission also, you don’t need to justify anything to me. You and your
family have sacrificed enough, and the Navy needs you here for knowledge
transfer. I get it. Really.”

Of our SpecOps team leaders, only newly-promoted
Lieutenant Colonel Smythe was able or willing to sign up for another mission.
All the others would be staying on Earth so their home outfits could learn from
their experience, and all of them sounded relieved about those orders to remain
dirtside for a while. Smythe was divorced and an adrenaline junkie, and when we
talked via zPhone, he was determined to do everything he could to prevent the
UN from deciding to contact the Jeraptha and surrender. I warned him not to
speak too loudly on that subject, or he could find himself sidelined. A long
conversation with our former fearless leader Hans Chotek had cautioned me
against speaking my mind about matters of policy. 

It surprised me that Skippy had bothered to
smuggle a zPhone to Hans Chotek, but the beer can had warmed up to Count
Chocula, or at least developed a grudging respect. Chotek told me the UNEF
member states were in a panic about the Maxolhx sending ships to Earth, and he
expected there would soon be a vote in the UN General Assembly about whether to
contact the Jeraptha. With deep regret, he told me there was nothing he could
do about it, he had lost his official position and had no influence, not even
within the Austrian government. I guess when you are a career diplomat, starting
a civil war that will likely kill millions of sentient beings is considered an
unforgivable sin. There was no point asking if he was willing to sign up for
another mission, no way would the UN trust him to keep me in check again. We
chatted a bit, with him thanking me for saying good things about him and his
judgment in my official report. In turn, he praised me for never giving up on
finding a way to fix Skippy while we were trapped in the Roach Motel. “I have
to say, when I heard you were planning a golf course on Gingerbread, I had doubts,”
I told him honestly.

“Colonel Bishop,” he yawned, I had forgotten that
it was the middle of the night in Austria. “Do you know 
why
 I was planning to build a golf course there?”

“Because,” I answered slowly, “you like golf?”

“No,” he laughed. “I planned it because making
plans to build something so mundane and frivolous as a golf course would signal
to people that life on Gingerbread was going to be normal and recognizable, if
we were to be trapped on that planet for a very long time. You do not plan a
golf course unless you are confident about your prospects for survival.”

“Huh. I hadn’t thought about that. That was…
clever,” I used Skippy’s highest word of praise.

“My hope was, somehow, we would never need to use
those plans.”

“We did anyway,” I pointed out. During the long
months when dropships were flying around scouring the junkyard for parts Skippy
could use to kludge together a working starship, half of the crew was on
Gingerbread at any time. To avoid boredom, we had built a soccer field, a
cricket ground, and a very rudimentary twelve-hole golf course. Technically,
the course had twelve greens but we set it up so each green had multiple tees
and approaches, giving us a back and forth thirty six holes that could be
played. After my down months on Gingerbread, I was in good shape from racing
around the soccer field, I still sucked at golf, and I still did not understand
the inscrutable rules of cricket even after playing dozens of matches. “I’m
glad we did, it gave us something to do. Kept our minds from worrying Skippy
couldn’t fix the ship.”

That conversation gave me a new level of respect
for the guy, although I still thought of him as ‘Count Chocula’.

One loss that really hurt, more than I expected,
was Jennifer Simms. Our logistics officer, also newly-promoted to Lieutenant
Colonel, told me that after two very long missions, she would not be returning
to the Merry Band of Pirates. “I never expected any of this,” she explained
even though I assured her no explanation was needed. “Colonel Bishop, I want to
get married someday. I want to start a family. That won’t happen while I’m
flying around the galaxy. The ship will be in good hands, we know now how to
use the hydroponics to grow fresh food, and I worked out the logistics
requirements to support the crew on an extended mission.”

“You want to start a family, even with the Maxolhx
sending two ships here?”

“Yes Sir. Think of that as a big vote of
confidence that, somehow, you, Skippy and a barrel of monkeys will think of
something to keep the bad guys away from Earth.”

Crap. If there wasn’t pressure on me before, there
sure was after 
that
 conversation. 

Hearing that if I took the 
Dutchman
 out again, it might be with almost an entirely new crew,
had me depressed. No, the important question was not when the 
Dutchman
 would be going out again, that
was pretty much a guarantee. The important question was whether 
I
 would be going with the ship- No, that
wasn’t right either. I could not imagine UNEF Command sending the 
Flying Dutchman
 on any sort of mission
without Skippy, and despite that little shithead being untrustworthy, he would
demand that I go with him. As I had been told at Wright-Pat, no way would UNEF
Command give me another shot at commanding a mission, so the best I could hope
for was to serve as an advisor to a new captain. 
 
What made it worse was the prospect that the
next mission might be one I absolutely disagreed with, even though I had
nothing to offer as a realistic or even far-fetched alternative.

It never occurred to me that UNEF Command might be
planning to send the ship out on a mission without me.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER FOUR

 

The alarm on my zPhone woke me up at 0430, at the
latitude of northern Maine the sun rose just after 0500 that time of year, and
I wanted to be on the road before first light. My breakfast and lunch were in
the fridge and all my other gear was in a duffel bag, so I stuffed the food in
the duffel and quietly went out the back door, walking carefully around puddles
so my boots would not squish on the soggy back lawn. It wasn’t quite drizzling
and the droplets of water in the air sticking to my eyelashes were larger than
typical fog, by the faint light shining through the woods from the McCarren’s
house I could see the moisture in the air. Fifty three degrees was exactly what
the weather forecast had predicted, it was going up to nearly seventy if the
clouds burned off, which I wasn’t counting on. In northern Maine, when the
weather forecast is wrong, it is always wrong in the crappy direction.

I did not care.

There was a light on in the trailer parked beside
the barn, when I was in the kitchen I could see lights in the RV parked out
front also. That didn’t worry me, Skippy had disabled the motion sensors and
invisible lasers or whatever the security team used to keep track of me. In the
wee hours of the morning and in the crappy weather, no one expected me to be
out of bed, because sleeping is what normal people do. The security team
assured me they were for my protection and not because the government didn’t
trust me, and I figured they truly were there partly to keep nutcases away from
my family, so I didn’t protest.

When I got into the woods behind my parents’
house, I could walk faster because the ground sloped up and there were no
puddles for me to squish in and make noise. In my foolish confidence, I assumed
I could walk through those woods in the darkness, because I had been there so
many times and knew that path so well I could have walked it blindfolded. It
was a surprise when I had to hold up a hand to push clusters of wet branches
away from my face, and when I bashed my forehead into a tree limb. While I had
spent many, many hours in those woods, none of those hours had been recently
and by ‘recently’ I mean since before I shipped out to Nigeria. Even in the
dark days after Columbus Day and before the ExForce went offworld, I had been
serving with the National Guard and only visited my parents once or twice. It
was a surprise to me how much those woods had changed, many of the large trees
had been cut for firewood, leaving gaps in the canopy for new growth to spring
up in the sunlight. There was a lot more underbrush than I remembered and I
stumbled often, feeling fortunate that most of the dead branches had been
picked up by my parents to use as kindling, so I didn’t step on anything that
would make a loud noise when it snapped.

My gloves were in the duffel bag and I did not
feel like fumbling around for them in the dark, I endured the occasional
scrapes and scratches on my bare hands and kept going. The underbrush was
sopping wet from overnight rain, and my pants were soon soaked from slogging
through that damned invasive Japanese stilt grass that was growing everywhere
because the deer didn’t like to eat it. By the time I got through the woods and
onto the old farm road, my socks were wet inside my waterproof boots from water
dripping down my drenched pants legs. On the old road which had ruts and
potholes that had not changed, I picked up my pace and soon stepped onto the paved
road where my friend Tom Paulson had parked his old Jeep, with the keys under a
rock behind a tree just where he said they would be. It was an old YJ, the kind
with the unfortunate square headlights. The roof seams leaked, the driver’s
side window rattled unless you pressed your elbow against it and the shocks
needed to be replaced. But it was available and Tom had tied a canoe to the
roof, so it looked great to me. It looked like freedom.

Tom had warned me the starter motor made a
grinding noise and the last thing I needed was to make noise. Releasing the
parking brake and putting the gearshift in neutral, I pushed it out onto the
road and when it got rolling down the hill by itself, I hopped in and popped
the clutch to start it. The engine fired right up! Until I got to the bottom of
the hill and made the turn to the right, I kept the headlights off and just
coasted along.

The headlights illuminated two glaring cones
through the mist, the droplets were so big I could see individual spheres of
condensed water vapor dancing in the light, moving randomly until the flat
front of the Jeep disturbed the air so they zoomed up to splatter against the
windshield. When the weather was warm, Tom liked to fold down the windshield
and drive that way, although one time I was with him when he did that and he
got smacked in the face with a big Junebug that must have weighed five pounds.
I kept the windshield right where it could fulfill its purpose of shielding me
from wind, rain and bugs.

Watching the mist was hypnotic, I had to be
careful not to get distracted by the brightly shining pinpricks of light that
swirled and rushed toward my eyes. It was still mostly dark and the last thing
I needed was to hit a deer, or a moose. With one hand I dug into my duffel for
a thermos of coffee, unscrewed the top and drank, it was still hot.

Life was good.

 

When I got the canoe out on the lake, the mist had
changed into a steady drizzle, and gray fog lay low on the water. I paddled
away from shore then drifted, watching raindrops gently dance on the surface as
I drank from the thermos. The light drizzle fell so softly upon the surface,
the ripples on the calm water merged before I could follow them with my eyes.
Shaking my wet jacket sleeves sent large droplets into the water, I watched
those circular ripples spread out, slowly fading away as the drizzle wore them
down. Because I was wearing a wide-brimmed hat, I could eat the muffins my
mother baked without getting them wet, and I knew to tuck my hands under my
chin keep them dry.

There I was, sitting in a canoe in the rain, the
sun barely lightening the gray sky in the east, my breath visible in the wispy
fog. A few feet away, there was a splash much larger than a raindrop, where a
fish broke the surface. Dark pine and fir trees lined the shore, interspersed
with maples whose branches hung out over the water. I could not remember the
last time I had felt so peaceful.

Before I was in high school, my father took me on
a canoe trip along the Allagash river, and the chain of lakes up there. We went
with a group, I remember there was a moose standing in the water close to shore
and we got too close, my father and I had to paddle like hell to get away from
the enraged moose while people in the other canoes laughed at us. That was a
great time, even the day when the wind blew hard right in our faces and all the
other people pulled their canoes along the shoreline in the shallow water. Not
my Dad and me, we stayed out there and paddled one stroke after another, barely
making headway against the gusty wind. When we got to our campsite for the
evening, half an hour ahead of everyone else by the way, my arms were like
rubber but I felt great.

Remembering that day, and fishing trips with my
father, I ate the muffins, drank hot coffee from the thermos, and watched the
rain fall silently all around me.

 

 

“
Flying
Dutchman
, this is resupply flight Uniform Sierra Niner Seven,” the pilot
concentrated more on keeping his tone of voice casual than the instruments in
front of him. He was fully, supremely confident in his ability to fly the Kristang
Dragon-A dropship up to the pirate starship in low orbit, less than five
thousand miles above the Earth’s surface. On training flights and then missions
to ferry equipment and scientists up to the captured Kristang troopship 
Yu Qishan
, the pilots had flown most of
the way to the Moon, so low orbit was not much of a challenge. The UN had a major
project to move the 
Qishan
 into low
orbit, to make it more accessible for study, but the science and engineering
teams aboard that captured ship were still trying to understand how the
reactors worked. Until the 
Qishan

could move under its own power, it would be staying right where it was, the UN
would not risk bringing the precious ship near the planet if there was even the
slightest chance it could crash and be lost. Any possibility for loss of life
on Earth, if the ship fell out of orbit, was a minor concern compared to the
vital technology aboard that ship. “Reporting as fully ready for departure.”

 

In the Combat Information Center of the 
Flying Dutchman
, currently high over the
Texas Gulf coast and headed east-northeast, the flight operations duty
officer’s shoulders tensed when she heard the code phrase ‘Reporting as
 fully
 ready’. There was no need to say
‘reporting as fully’ and it was not standard communications procedure for a
ground-to-orbit flight, the phrase had been chosen because it was unlikely to
be used except as a code, but was ordinary enough not to raise suspicions. That
was the hope, anyway. The duty officer at the flight ops station had learned
that the alien AI seemed to see, hear and know everything that went on aboard
and around the pirate ship. “Roger that, US Niner Seven,” the duty officer
forced a somewhat bored tone in her voice. “No other traffic in the area. We
have you cleared all the way in for Docking Bay Two.”

 

“Cleared all the way in for Bay Two, understood.
Niner Seven is rolling, we have your guidance beam five by five,” the pilot
lifted his right thumb off the control panel to indicate the ‘Go’ order to his
copilot. The phrase ‘
all the way in
’
was the proper response code for the operation. If the flight ops officer in
orbit had not responded with that code phrase, the pilots of the Dragon had
been instructed to fake a mechanical problem with their dropship and abort the
assault. If the Merry Band of Pirates were expecting trouble, the Dragon did
not have a chance to get the assault team aboard the ship successfully. The
payload would be unloaded and replaced by innocuous supplies needed for a
deep-space mission, and the Dragon would innocently perform its official
resupply function. A later flight would attempt the assault later.

That was the original plan. Now, the timeline had
been accelerated for reasons the pilots had not been told, they needed to go
now, right now. Turning in his seat while the copilot continued preflight
procedures, the pilot gave a thumbs up to the payload.

The payload leader gave a silent thumbs up to
acknowledge the signal, all communications were conducted by hand signals in
case the AI above was listening. Instead of supply crates requested by Lt.
Colonel Simms, the Dragon was loaded down with a seven-man assault team wearing
Kristang powered armor. The assault team, part of Delta Force from nearby Fort
Bragg, had loaded aboard the Dragon in its special hangar under Pope Army
Airfield, away from sight and hopefully even away from the all-seeing senses of
the alien AI aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
.
The hangar was deep underground and had no cameras or communications equipment
that might be used by a hostile or even indifferent intelligence. Whether that
was true or not, was something the assault team would learn only when they got
out of the Dragon in the 
Dutchman
’s
docking bay.

The op was, in the professional opinion of the
Delta team leader, a hastily thrown-together mess. They could count on help
from only a handful of people aboard the ship, the others were blissfully
ignorant of the plan. None of the Delta team had ever been aboard the 
Dutchman
, and training had been limited
to one day in a hangar at Pope airfield, using tape on the floor to outline
passageways, bulkheads and hatchways. Rodriguez assumed he would have to adapt
to the situation as it developed and hope for the best.

The copilot cupped a hand around the microphone
that wrapped around toward his mouth, and waited for the pilot to do the same.
“Does this sit right with you?” 

The pilot’s eyes automatically flicked up and back
to the flight recorder that had been installed on the rear bulkhead of the
cockpit, the bright orange device awkwardly bolted and strapped in place. The
status light of the device was off, the power cable having been severed. The Dragon
had its own flight recorder system, but humans were still trying to learn the
dropship’s subsidiary systems, with little help from the AI. The only reason
humans on Earth could fly dropships at all was through instruction by pilots
who had served with the Merry Band of Pirates on previous missions. Again, the
AI had been almost no help with flight instruction, giving one lame excuse
after another about not being able to share technical secrets with a species it
arrogantly considered to be monkeys. “Following orders sits right with me,” the
pilot answered as his eyes narrowed, coolly considering his right-seater.

“Dan,” the copilot shook his head slightly,
keeping the gesture controlled so anyone watching would not think there was a
problem in the cockpit. “The Pirates saved the planet. Now we’re taking the
ship from them?”

“It’s not 
their

ship,” the pilot said with practiced patience, measuring his words because he,
too, did not like their assigned mission. They had trained for a mission to
retake the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
, in case it was ever seized by
a foreign power. The mission they had trained for did not involve taking
control of the ship away from the crew who had served aboard her for years, now
they were ordered to do exactly that. The mission they were on now had been
thrown together at the last minute. “We don’t have the big picture. Command
wouldn’t have ordered this op unless some bad shit is going to hit the fan. The
French and Chinese birds are down,” the lead pilot mused, “and our other Dragon
is out of position, up at the 
Qishan
.”
China, France and the United States had the only fully operational dropships on
the planet, other than the ships assigned to the 
Flying Dutchman
. When the ‘Go’ order was given, the Dragons
controlled by France and China were not flightworthy as they were undergoing
heavy maintenance, and the other Dragon controlled by America was aboard the 
Yu Qishan
 with the mostly civilian
engineering team there. “It’s up to us.” To avoid comms being tapped by the
alien AI, all orders had to be given and confirmed face to face, a procedure
that did not allow for optimal timing.

“Roger that,” Daniel Pope reluctantly sat back in
the copilot seat and released his microphone. The two pilots completed the
preflight procedures, received clearance from the tower, and the Dragon roared
into the sky for its rendezvous with the pirate ship.

 

Captain Samantha Reed was bored, bored, 
bored
. After the week of debriefing at
Wright-Pat, she had been granted two weeks of leave, with a promise of another
two weeks at an unspecified future date. Sami ‘Fireball’ Reed assumed either
her future leave would get cancelled if she was assigned to the 
Flying Dutchman
 again, or she could have
her choice of next assignment and could take the leave when she wanted. With
two Maxolhx ships soon headed toward Earth, she was betting the 
Dutchman
 would not be remaining long in
orbit, one way or the other. About the prospect of another flight aboard the
pirate ship, she had seriously mixed feelings. If the plan was to contact the
senior species and throw humanity at the non-existent mercy of those supremely
powerful beings, she wanted no part in that suicide mission. A suicide mission
for all of humanity.

If the 
Dutchman

was going back out to kill those two Maxolhx ships, or whatever crazy-ass
scheme the Colonel dreamed up, she would be a hundred ten percent in favor of
that mission. But, she admitted to herself, she did not know whether she wanted
to go on another mission that meant being stuck again inside the slowly
deteriorating starship for many months, even years. If she was ordered to go,
then she would. If she thought her unique experience could help ensure the
success of the mission, then she would go whether she was happy about it or
not. But the Merry Band of Pirates had plenty of qualified pilots, and there
were hundreds, probably thousands, of pilots on Earth eager for and deserving
of, a chance to fly to the stars. Did 
she

need to go? She loved flying, loved flying free of gravity’s grasping bonds,
loved that she had saved their nearly-disastrous first refueling mission by
discovering how to manually fly the drogue chute. She was proud of what she had
achieved, and she felt a strong sense of loyalty to Colonel Bishop.

That did not mean she wanted to spend the rest of
her life in a composite tube monotonously jumping through interstellar space,
with moments of sheer gut-wrenching terror. Three nights before, she had been
out with friends and met a cute guy, an Army Ranger. At first, she assumed he
was sucking up to her because he wanted a recommendation to join the Merry Band
of Pirates, but it quickly became clear the guy was clueless about who she was.
With her wearing civilian clothes, and with mostly civilian friends, he had not
recognized her from her brief appearances in the media after the 
Dutchman
 returned. The military had
limited press access to the returning Pirates, so that only a few officers had
to endure giving pre-digested answers to the same old dumb questions, and
Sami’s face had fortunately not been all over social media.

The guy was cute and not at all dumb, and when he
blushed after realizing who she was, he had adorable dimples. They had plans to
go out to dinner two nights later, then Colonel Bishop had requested she cut
short her leave and fly back up to the 
Dutchman

ASAP to ‘oversee’ the crew working to restock and refit the ship. Technically,
Skippy had requested there always be at least two Pirates aboard the ship at
all times, because the beer can was uncomfortable with new people. In reality,
her presence aboard the ship was because Bishop did not trust new people he
didn’t know. He didn’t trust them not to be clumsy and break their rebuilt
Frankenship, and he flat-out did not trust them. With the governments of Earth
peeing in their pants about the idea of Maxolhx starships suddenly appearing in
the sky and turning the surface of humanity’s home into radioactive slag,
Bishop did think they might try something rash and stupid. Sami resented being
whisked away from a normal life to baby-sit a bunch of newbies in orbit, but,
damn it, she and all the Pirates had worked hard to build the ship out of spare
parts and no way was she letting anyone screw with it. Besides, Bishop had sworn
she only needed to be aboard the ship for three days, until Lt. Commander
Williams arrived to relieve her.

Walking back from the galley where she had enjoyed
a surprisingly good breakfast, her thoughts were interrupted. “Hey, Fireball,”
Skippy’s voice rang in her earpiece.

“Skippy, I asked you not to call me that. Captain
Reed, or Sami will do fine.”

“Yeah, and I asked for a puppy, but did I get one?
Nooooo.”

Sami came to a halt in the passageway. “What would

you
 do with a puppy?”

“That was a joke, Fireball. Although, hey, getting
a puppy would be a 
great
 idea.”

“No, it would be a 
terrible
 idea,” Sami found herself repeating words she had heard
Bishop say too often.

“Why? Puppies are cute! Having a puppy would be
good for morale. He could snuggle up against me and I could keep him warm.”

“Uh huh. How are 
you
 going to care for a puppy? You can’t even move yourself.”

“My bots could walk the dog, and feed it and, you
know, clean up after it. Even a dog that sheds would be cleaner than you filthy
monkeys. I will talk with Joe about-”

“No, you are not bothering J-” she almost used his
first name. Keeping track of whether Bishop was a staff sergeant or a colonel
was frustrating. “Not bothering Bishop with your idiot ideas. You are not
getting a puppy and that’s final.”

“Why? Because you are the Mommy and you said so?”

“Skippy,” Sami sighed. “What did you want, before
we got off the subject?”

“Oh yeah. Thank you, I almost forgot. You should
go to the CIC.”

“Why?” She had been planning to use one of the
flight simulators, which were blessedly available now that the 
Dutchman
 was without a regular crew.

“The latest resupply flight is climbing into orbit
now.”

“Got it. Skippy, that is a routine flight. If I
hang around the CIC, that will show I lack confidence in the crew there. I’m
not the duty officer until 1600 today.”

“Oh, good point,” the beer can sounded disappointed.
“Ok, forget what I said.”

“Ah, maybe I should be there, so those
knuckleheads flying the resupply bird don’t crash into us and scratch the
paint. Where is the resupply bird now?”

“Still in atmo, it will be here in forty minutes.”

“I have time, then,” Sami suppressed an eyeroll. “I’ll
be in CIC for the docking procedure.”

 

Hans Chotek was not having a good day, in fact it
was a particularly bad day in a week that had started badly and gone downhill.
He had been fired from his government position and almost entirely ostracized
by former colleagues and friends, that afternoon he was in a windowless
concrete room under a security building in Paris. UNEF had brought him there
two days ago, supposedly for more questioning though no questions of any substance
had been asked. He had not been allowed to use a phone, indeed the room had no
communications equipment or electronics of any kind, Hans figured that was to
prevent Skippy from snooping on conversations.

One of his few remaining friends had just left, a
colleague from Sweden who had come to check on him, and to warn him of trouble
coming soon. At first, Hans had been surprised she took the risk of speaking
openly, until she assured him there were not any listening devices in the room,
another measure to prevent the alien AI in orbit from spying on human affairs.

When the door closed with a solid and
fateful-sounding clang, Hans could not help a shudder of fear. Not fear for
himself, fear for humanity. If only there were a way he could warn Bishop, or
Skippy. 

 

“Hello Lauren,” Skippy called Captain Poole, as
she was engaged in the insufferably tedious task of checking supplies against
the official manifest, and making sure everything was stowed correctly
according to the procedures developed by Simms. Poole had heard Simms would not
be signing on for another mission, a fact that made the Ranger sad, and, she
had to admit to herself, even less eager for another endless voyage inside the
composite bulkheads of the starship.

“Good morning, Skippy. What can I do for you?” She
replied without taking eyes off her tablet. She would rather have been dirtside
than aboard the 
Flying Dutchman

again, but she had agreed to spend three days in orbit, keeping an eye on the
new crew.

“I need your help. I’m decorating my escape pod
mancave, and I need stuff moved around.”

That made her pause and look up. 
Decorating
? She silently mouthed the
word in amazement. Why would a beer can need- Then she realized nothing about
Skippy would surprise her. “Your bots can’t do that for you?”

“No, I kind of need an opinion also.”

“Trust me, you do not want 
my
 opinion about interior decorating,” she snorted. “I’m busy, can
this wait?”

“Uh, it can’t wait. I’ll explain when you get
here, but this is important, and, rather time-sensitive.”

“Seriously?” The phrase ‘time-sensitive’ bothered
her. Had the idiot AI glued something to the wall and she had to remove it
before the glue dried? “No one else can do it? I’m on duty, Skippy. Plenty of
people aboard are-”

“It has to be you. Trust me, Captain. This is
important.”

She set the tablet down and secured it with a
strap, proper procedure in case the ship had to maneuver suddenly, or lost
artificial gravity. “Fine,” her tone meant it was not fine at all. “if this is
some idiot practical joke-”

“No joke, please hurry, But, uh, don’t make it 
look
 like you’re hurrying. Ok?”

 

By the time Samantha Reed walked into the CIC, the
resupply Dragon was coming slowly and carefully through the open doors into a
docking bay, its flight controlled by the automated docking system. There
wasn’t anything the pilots needed to do, indeed on a display that showed the
inside of the dropship’s cockpit, both pilots had their arms resting on the
sides of their consoles, showing they were not touching anything important. In
an emergency, they could resume manual control in a second, although in a real
emergency a second might be too late. 

“Major Jones,” Sami approached the flight control
duty officer, who was also filling in as the overall duty officer since the
starship’s main reactor was shut down and the ship wasn’t going anywhere.

“Captain Reed,” Jones acknowledged the former
Pirate with an annoyed coolness. The CIC crew did not appreciate the ship’s
previous crew looking over their shoulders, especially during a procedure as
routine as an automated docking. The 
Dutchman
’s
AI was in complete control of the Dragon, with Skippy only on call in case of
emergency. The beer can-shaped alien AI was not supposed to be even monitoring
the docking procedure, so the crew could gain confidence in their abilities,
Jones was skeptical the beer can could resist spying on them anyway. “You are
not on duty until 1600.” The duty officer had not bothered to look at the
newcomer.

“Yes, Ma’am. Just observing, I’ll stay out of your
way,” Sami edged back up against the rear bulkhead of the CIC. She looked away
from the displays into the darkened bridge area, where the command chair and
two pilot couches were empty. That would never happen under Bishop’s command,
unless the crew had entirely abandoned ship. Sami could see it made little
sense for pilots to stand a duty shift at the controls of a ship running on
backup power, she also had learned you never knew when some really bad shit
might happen. When the universe decided to bite you on the ass, it was serious.

She did not know anyone in the CIC, the only
person aboard the ship she had served with was Lauren Poole, and they had not
really served together, as Sami was a pilot and Poole wore powered armor or
controlled a combot in action. Still, the two sought each other out at
breakfast and dinner times, comforted to have someone familiar to talk with.

Poole came to mind after the Dragon settled into
its secure docking clamps, and the big bay doors clanged shut. As air began to
rush back into the bay, Jones turned to a Chinese officer manning a console and
asked, “Verify Captain Poole’s location.”

That
 was
odd, Sami thought. Well, the newbies have their own procedures.

“Captain Poole is in Cargo Bay Seven,” the Chinese
officer reported, pointing to a display showing a camera image from that bay.
“She is still cataloging supplies.”

A tight smile flashed across Jones’ lips and she
nodded silently.

“Ma’am?” Sami spoke, satisfied she was not at risk
of distracting the crew during docking. The Dragon was secure and powering down
and, there wasn’t anything for the CIC crew to do. “Poole knows not to approach
a docking bay during pressurization, you don’t need to be concerned about her
safety.” Besides, Sami knew, the ship’s AI wouldn’t allow anyone into the
docking bay antechamber until the bay air pressure reached normal levels.

“I am not worried about Poole’s safety,” Jones
replied, then she astonished Sami by pulling a sidearm out from a pocket. And
pointing it at Sami. “My concern is that she does not try to interfere with
us.”

Suddenly, a lot of odd things she noticed over the
past two days made sense to Captain Samantha Reed. She understood in a flash as
she looked at the small semi-automatic pistol held by Jones. It looked like a
.22 to Sami’s highly-alert eyes, and a such a weapon had little stopping power.
Jones was only a few feet from her, could she jump- No. That little pistol
likely had explosive-tipped rounds that could do bad things to Sami’s insides.
Slowly, she raised her arms, and Jones gestured for someone to restrain the
Pirate. The main CIC display showed images from the docking bay, where
armor-suited figures were running out of the Dragon, carrying Kristang rifles.
“If this is a mutiny-” Sami began to say.

“This action is fully authorized by UNEF Command, 
and
 by the President of the United
States directly,” Jones kept an eye on the Pirate, while with the hand not
holding the sidearm, she flipped up a clear plastic cover and pressed a button.
To her right, the Chinese officer pressed the confirmation button, and Sami felt
the deck shudder slightly.

“No!” Sami shouted in horror, realizing the CIC
crew had just ejected Skippy’s escape pod. With two people holding her arms
firmly, she couldn’t do anything. “Are you crazy?”

“The alien is not our ally. It is using us,” Jones
explained, moving to another console.

“Holy shit,” Sami gasped, seeing what Jones was
doing.

The officer was activating one of the point-defense
maser cannons, and authorizing it to fire on proximity mode. Jones looked up
briefly to meet Sami’s horrified gaze. “The alien tells us it can’t be harmed
by conventional weapons. If that is true, it has nothing to worry about,” Jones
explained as her fingers ran through the maser start-up sequence.

“
Hey
!”
Skippy’s voice boomed painfully out of the CIC speakers. “What are you idiot
monkeys doing? I just decorated my mancave, now you have gone and-”

Jones cut off power to the speakers. “If it can be
killed by something simple like a maser cannon, then,” she jabbed a thumb down
on the firing button, “we don’t need it anymore.”

 

“Escape pod destroyed,” the voice of the duty
officer resounded in the helmet of the Delta team leader.

“Any interference from the alien?” Team leader Rodriguez
asked, slightly out of breath from the headlong run from the docking bay.
Powered armor helped tremendously, but a user still needed their own muscles to
control the suit, and the situation was tense. Their mission was to seize
humanity’s only ship capable of traveling between stars, take it away from the
control of an alien AI who had demonstrated it could not be trusted. Rodriguez
had doubts about whether the mission could succeed, he even had doubts about
whether it 
should
 succeed, whether he
and his team were doing the right thing. None of his men had expressed any
reservations out loud, they didn’t need to. Rodriguez knew them, knew the
meaning of looks they gave, how their utter silence during the ride up from
Fort Bragg had said everything that needed to be said.

“No interference. No 
contact
 at all,” Jones reported. 

“No contact?”

“Nothing. We are not receiving any signals from
the alien, its connection with the ship has been severed.”

“Hell,” Rodriguez grunted as he and three members
of his team ran up the access tunnel of the ship’s spine, the hatchway to the
forward hull in sight. They had not dared ride the tram in case the alien took
control and shut it down. The other three were racing aft toward the
engineering section, to connect with and secure the scientists and engineers
there. “Is the alien 
dead
? Maybe that
computer worm damaged it more than it admitted.”

“Speculate later,” Jones ordered.

“Copy that,” Rodriguez concentrated on getting
through the hatch that was approaching fast. If the hatch was closed and locked
against them, they had plasma torches for cutting through, or shaped-charge
explosives if they absolutely had no time to screw around. To his great relief,
his team ran through the open hatch single-file without any problem. It might
be, the thought flashed through his mind, that the Delta team was not needed at
all. They had full control of the ship already, and people who were not part of
the plan posed no threat to UNEF Command’s ownership of humanity’s only real starship.

The part of the ship they were running through was
a wide and tall central passageway with double doors to cargo bays on each
side. Up ahead the wide passageway ended in a T where his team would split
again, two going left to the computer core while Rodriguez and another would go
right and forward to the CIC. With a glance downward, he verified the safety of
his Kristang rifle was off, they were equipped with low-velocity rounds to
avoid blowing a hole in anything important aboard the ship. That was another
problem for Rodriguez to worry about: those rounds had never been tested inside
an actual Thuranin starship. 

When he looked up again after no more than a
half-second, a cargo bay door had opened ahead of him, and an armor-suited
figure carrying a rifle stepped out.

“Hello, 
boys
,”
Lauren Poole greeted the newbies.

 

The FBI agent burst out the back door of the
Bishop house, waving his arms toward the trailer in the driveway. “He’s gone!
Joe Bishop is gone!”

“What do you mean, 
gone
?” The field supervisor asked from the trailer’s open door,
feeling an already bad morning going to shit in front of his eyes. “Did you
check in the basement?”

“Yes, we’re checking the attic now but-”

“Yeah. 
Shit
!
How did he get past the motion detector and laser fencing?” The supervisor
asked to himself, fearing he knew the answer to that question. Then he felt a
chill up his spine. The agents should have reported from inside the house, not
needing to run out the back door and shout. Pressing the transmit button on his
walkie-talkie, he called out. “Team, this is Gillis, report in.”

“Sir, comms are down,” the agent shook his own
walkie-talkie with disgust, popping open the cover to check the batteries.

The supervisor tossed his useless walkie-talkie on
a shelf beside the door and pulled a cellphone out of a pocket. Four bars, that
was good, they had installed a new cell tower in the area just to support the
security detail. His phone had an app that would have alerted him if the phone
lost contact with the cell tower. Bishop must have set up a silent jammer in or
near the house, blocking the frequencies used by the walkie-talkies, but that
jerk spaceman had not been able to interfere with cell signals. The supervisor
only needed to press the first number on speed-dial to contact the local
operations manager, he would have a one-mile radius locked down in a few
minutes, with a five-mile cordon soon after. That reckless asshole Sergeant
Bishop would not get far.

Except that when the supervisor held the phone to
his ear, he did not hear the local ops manager. He heard a sultry woman’s
voice. “Welcome to Trixie’s erotic chat line, where your fantasies can become
reality-”

Red-faced, the supervisor ended the call and
pressed the numbers manually for the local ops manager, a number he had practiced
calling over and over until it was burned into his memory.

This time, he did not mis-dial a phone sex company.
But the result was just as disappointing. Three whistling tones, followed by a
familiar female voice soothingly saying “The number you have reached is not in
service. If you’d like to make a call, please hang up and dial again.” The
supervisor stared at the phone, irritated at himself for pressing the wrong
sequence of buttons.

Then he got angry at someone else when the phone
message continued. It was a snarky, arrogant voice he knew well from listening
to recordings. “Hey, shithead, I 
said
,
hang up and try again. Maybe you’ll get lucky.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER FIVE

 

“Hey Joe,” Skippy’s muffled voice came from inside
my jacket.

“Just a minute,” I shouted toward the pocket,
trying to finish eating a muffin. Damn it, I had asked Skippy to leave me in
peace that morning. In disgust, I tossed the half-eaten muffin into the lake,
which prompted a big fish to immediately hit it. Crap, that was my last muffin,
I should have saved one to use as bait. With the phone to my ear, I answered
the pain-in-the-ass beer can. “What’s up?”

“Well, I- hey. Are you fishing in the rain?”

“Yeah, so?”

“Don’t normal people wait for a 
nice
 day to go fishing?”

“It’s peaceful out here, I like it. What is so
important?”

“Oh, nothing much, pretty quiet up here. I’m
chilling in my new mancave since the duty officer ejected my old escape pod and
blew it to dust with a maser cannon. Captain Reed has a gun to her head, Captain
Poole is alone against a seven-man Delta Force team that is trying to seize
control of the ship. You know, a typical Tuesday.”

“
Holy
-” Shit, it actually was Sunday. “What the 
f
-”

“This will go faster if I just give you a sitrep
instead of the usual blah blah buh-
lah

of you interrupting me with stupid questions.”

“Deal.”

“Great. Ok, the UN Security Council has scheduled
a vote this evening on whether to send the 
Dutchman

out to surrender to the Jeraptha. The measure is expected to pass because most
governments are scared shitless about Maxolhx warships coming here. I knew
about that vote and I was going to tell you, even though you asked me to leave
you alone because little Joey wants to catch a fish 
thiiiiiiis
 big so his Mommy can cook it and-”

“I need a break, Skippy.”

“Was that you 
not

interrupting me?”

“Was that you giving a sitrep, or you whining
about me wanting ten freakin’ minutes to myself for a change?”

“Fine,” he huffed. “Anywho, what I did 
not
 know was the five nations of UNEF
met in secret this morning and already voted for surrendering to the Jeraptha.”

“How could you 
not

know? You know everything!”

“First, Mister Jackass, they apparently conducted
all communications face to face or by writing notes on paper. Can you imagine
that? 
So
 primitive. But, eh,
effective. The site where they held the vote had no electronics at all, nothing
I could hack into. Well, not quite, I could have hacked in if I knew about the
meeting, or cared about what a bunch of monkeys in suits were doing. Hee hee,
monkeys wearing suits, that’s funny. You know what is even more funny? Monkeys
wearing tuxedos. While riding bicycles. Ooooh, even better, riding tiny
tricycles!”

“Yeah that’s freakin’ hilarious. How do you know
about it now?”

“Count Chocula told me. He is being held by the
French intelligence service in an underground interrogation cell, also with no
electronics. Fortunately, that cell has a single bare lightbulb hanging from
the ceiling, and I have been paying close attention to old Hansie.”

“Because you are concerned about him? I didn’t
know you cared.”

“Eh, more like because I was hoping he would do
something stupid to amuse me, but let’s go with the ‘care and concern’ thing if
that makes me look better. To make a long story short, Chotek is clever enough
to suspect I could listen to him through that lightbulb. Admittedly, the audio
quality is poor, that building is old and the wiring dates back way before
World War Two. I kind of amazed myself, really. To listen in to Chocula, I had
to create a map of all electrical activity in that building, then calibrate-”

“Can we agree you are amazingly awesome, and skip
the part where you brag about yourself? What did Chotek say?”

“Ugh. You
 say
 you know the extent of my
awesomeness, but when I-”

“Sitrep. Short and to the point.”

“Fine. Jackass,” he muttered under his breath.
“Chotek warned me about a plan to seize the 
Dutchman
,
they didn’t trust you and the Pirates. They also did not trust 
me
, which is quite-”

“Which is totally understandable. What is the
situation upstairs? Damn it, there’s a Delta team taking control of the ship?”

“Poole is handling it. Well, she’s trying to,
nothing you can do about it right now. What you need to be concerned about is
yourself. The FBI team at your house was ordered to take you into custody about
six minutes ago. They stormed into the house and scared the crap out of your
mother, she whomped one of them in the face with a cast-iron skillet. Laid him
out cold on the kitchen floor. Hee hee, I 
like

your Mom.”

“Crap!” I picked up the paddle, and began digging
into the water for shore where I had parked Tom’s old Jeep. “Are my folks Ok?”

“There was a standoff between three feds and your
father holding a baseball bat, but when the feds saw you weren’t in the house,
they bailed. They called for air support and have sealed off roads around your
neighborhood.”

“We live in the woods, Skippy, there is no ‘neighborhood’.”

“You know what I mean. The feds have three helos
in the air now, but don’t worry. I’ve got them chasing a ghost along Route 212
near Merrill. You are not the only Pirate in jeopardy, orders have gone out to,
ahem, ‘secure’ the entire crew.”

“Shit. It’s lucky that I snuck out to go fishing.”

“True, as you monkeys misunderstand the concept of
‘luck’.”

“Hey,” I stopped paddling as a thought hit me.
“The feds are looking for me? Why hasn’t the Army called me and just ordered me
to surrender?”

“Um, would you want to know about such a call?”

“Shit. No.”

“Then as far as you know, the authorities have not
tried to contact you. You can’t refuse to obey an order you never received,
right?”

That was skating on very thin ice, but I wasn’t
going to argue about it. “Hypothetically, if the Army did call me, what would
the order have been?”

“Well, they wanted you to-”

“
Hypothetically
,
Skippy.”

“Oh, yeah, of course. I can tell you that Army
leadership does not agree with the decision to contact the Jeraptha. The other
services also argued against surrendering, but they are subordinate to civilian
authority in your country. In other countries, the militaries generally think
contacting the Jeraptha is premature, without knowing when the Maxolhx are
expected to be here. And without first making at least some sort of effort to
stop those Maxolhx ships. The United States Army is in a particularly bad
position, because an Army officer whose name rhymes with ‘Shmoe Dipshit’ got
you monkeys into this mess.”

Shmoe Dipshit? That was a good one, even I had to
chuckle. “All right. Close enough.” I looked at my zPhone. There were no missed
calls, no text messages, no emails. No evidence anyone tried to contact me. My
other cellphone, the one provided to me by the feds so they could track me, was
under my bed back home.

 
“Joe, what
matters now is I have a dropship coming to pick you up. You may have to
apologize later, we don’t have time to be gentle about this, so I will have the
Falcon coming in at Mach Seven and 
that

sonic boom is going to wake up people all over the state. ETA is just over
twelve minutes.”

“Ok, Ok. Uh, please contact Tom and tell him where
I parked his Jeep, the keys are under the passenger seat.” I am such a dope.
Who cares about an old Jeep in such a crisis? “How many other Pirates can you
pick up before the authorities get to them?”

“Working on it.”

 

Lt. Colonel Jennifer Simms was soundly asleep when
her regular cellphone blared her awake. It was Skippy, and it was an emergency.
The FBI was coming for her, she had seven minutes to decide what to do before
the black SUVs rolled up in front of her apartment. Without hesitation, she
reached under the bed for her ‘Go’ bag, pulled on the clothes and shoes she
wore the previous day, slipped out the sliding glass door, and ran across a
field into the wooded area. By the time she reached the elementary school, the
low clouds behind her were flashing blue from the FBI’s lights. “Am I Ok,
Skippy?”

“Uh huh. I jacked your car and I am driving it
like maniac toward the interstate, the FBI just heard about it. Oops, just
clipped another car, sorry about your headlight. And the fender.”

That made her slow her pace. “Skippy, I don’t have
a self-driving car.”

“
Duh
.
That thing handles like a refrigerator on a skateboard. Seriously, what were
you thinking when you bought that shitbox? Crap, I just took out someone’s
mailbox. That’s a federal offense, right? Ah, maybe I can plea-bargain down to
the death penalty.”

“That car was cheap,” she answered defensively. “I
have not needed to drive a lot for the last couple years, you know?”

“True. You did crash that truck in Nigeria, so
everyone is safer if you are not-”

“Where should I go? What’s the plan?”

“Um, let me think. Stay where you are.”

“Here?” She looked around her in the pre-dawn darkness.
“I’m in the middle of an elementary school baseball outfield.”

“Yup. Perfect place to land the Falcon I have
dropping down for you, it will be there in five minutes. Lucky for you, I was
flight-testing that Falcon after replacing an engine, so it was already over
Montana. Texas isn’t that far.”

“Montana to Texas isn’t far?”

“Not at Mach Twenty Five it isn’t. Uh, better
cover your ears when it gets there.”

Simms knew better than to argue with the beer can.
She used the time to duck into the Porta-potty near the bleachers, and trying
to drag her fingers through the tangled mess of her hair. Then she waited,
hands over her ears. Until she saw a problem. “Skippy, there is a cellphone
tower to the south of the school, and a powerline behind the ball field. Will
those be a problem for the Falcon?” Even a Falcon, smaller of the two types of
Thuranin dropship, was a big damned thing.

“That powerline 
is
 a problem. Taking care of that now, I will need you to press the
Big Red Button on your phone to authorize weapons, I still have that annoying
restriction in my programming. Oh hey, best not to look in that direction, huh?”

“Oh 
shit
.”
She swept to the second set of icons on her phone and there is was, a Big Red
Button app that hadn’t been there the previous night. Even facing in the other
direction with her eyes closed, she saw the bright explosions as the Falcon’s
masers ripped into the base of the powerline towers and they fell, sending
searing bright arcs of light. When she turned around to see the incoming dropship
firing its nose thrusters to slow down, its belly was illuminated by sparks
coming from the downed powerline.

The city behind the dropship was going dark from
the power outage.

“Was that really necessary?” She shouted over the
whining turbines of the Falcon as it settled down in the outfield, its heavy
skids plowing deep into the damp soil. “There’s a high school football field a
half mile away, I could have run there!”

“Was it strictly necessary? Shmaybe not. Was it
awesome? Abso-
lut
-ely!”

“Why do men love blowing things up?” Jennifer
clutched her ‘Go’ bag with both hands and ran up the Falcon’s ramp, using her
knees to brace herself in a jumpseat because the ship was already taking off.

“It’s a dumbass thing,” Skippy admitted, “you
wouldn’t understand. Hang on, we have a stop to make before climbing for
orbit.”

 

Skippy was not kidding about the sonic boom. The
dropship came straight over the water toward me, spun around so the open back
ramp splashed in the shallow water, and I waded out to slog my wet boots up the
ramp. If I wasn’t wet before, I was then as the belly jets kicked up a nearly
blinding spray of water. When I was halfway up the ramp, there was a long, low
rumble that sounded like never-ending thunder. Anyone in the North Woods who decided
to sleep in on that rainy Sunday morning would be woken up by that alarming
sound.

To save time, I took a jumpseat at the top of the
ramp. “Go, Skip-” my order was cut off by the Falcon standing on its tail and
leaping up for the sky. Crap, I thought, I hope the jetwash doesn’t knock over
Tom’s Jeep. Or worse, knock down a tree to crush it. If a Jeep rolls on its
side, you can just push it back onto its wheels.

“Where are we going, Skippy?” I asked as the ship
began to level out and punched through the sound barrier. I knew we went
supersonic because the sound of the engine exhaust was muted, those sound waves
couldn’t catch up to the ship. While we talked, I unstrapped and labored to
walk toward the cockpit, holding onto seatbacks along the way.

“To pick up Smythe and hopefully some other
Pirates. We have to go suborbital to get to the UK quickly, so hang on. I’m
pushing your Falcon hard.”

“Yeah, I can feel that,” I grunted as I rolled
into a pilot couch and the straps automatically hugged me tightly. Without a
flightsuit, I was feeling naked, and uncomfortable. The flightsuits compensated
for the pilot couches having been designed for Thuranin and, even modified,
were too small for me. “How many Pirates can we count on?”

“Depressingly few, Joe. Simms is aboard another
Falcon, she-”

“
Simms
?
She told me she wouldn’t sign up for another mission.”

“That may have been before she was told she 
couldn’t
 go. Jennifer is a remarkably
stubborn woman, the best way to get her to do something is to tell her she
can’t. Um, don’t tell her I said that. Besides, she is pissed off about your
government being stupid.”

“Well, hell, I am sure glad to have her with us.
Who else?”

“Of the original Merry Band of Pirates who left
Paradise, only you and Simms. Giraud is being held by French authorities, the
French have proven to be quite efficient at securing the entire team, we won’t
get anyone from them. Desai is aboard a military aircraft over the Indian
Ocean, we have no way to get to her. Chang is at a Chinese military base and we
would be risking a firefight to get him, I have not been able to contact him at
all. Adams is surrounded by Marines at Quantico, I am doing what I can to
contact her, but she is on lockdown. Basically, Joe, the best we can hope for
is maybe a half dozen people off the surface. Everyone else has been secured.
This operation, the groundside part of it, was well-planned.”

I briefly considered contacting special ops people
who had not been aboard the 
Dutchman
,
but might be willing to sign up now. No, that was a stupid idea that I
discarded immediately. Not only would I not know the new people, I would be
asking them to violate a direct order and throw their careers away on a snap
decision. What worried me was, some new people might go aboard to infiltrate
the crew and take over the ship. That was not practical, I could not imagine
myself randomly calling a Ranger or SEAL unit and asking if anyone there felt
like committing mutiny that day? “Ok, we’ll make this up as we go.”

“Standard Operating Procedure, you mean?”

“Yeah, damn it. Could we count on anyone aboard
the ship, other than Poole and Reed?”

“The two CIC officers up here who blew up my
escape pod are 
off 
the list, Joe, I
don’t care if they have a change of heart.”

“Agreed.” To be entrusted with responsibility for
taking Skippy out of the fight, those two officers must be hard-core committed
to the operation. “No one else?”

“A few people here and there. Joe, the problem is
the UNEF nations were prepared for this. We should have acted before the
governments assigned security teams to watch all the Pirates.”

“Back then, we didn’t need to act. Hey, wait,” I
remembered a news report I saw a couple days ago. “The Chinese and French dropships
are really down for maintenance? That wasn’t a fake news report to make us
think they only have two birds available?”

“The report was accurate, Joe. I even reviewed
their maintenance plan for them last week. Earth governments control only four
Dragons and their supply of replacement parts is thin to the point of becoming
dangerous.”

“Ok, then the other Dragon controlled by the US is
up at the 
Yu Qishan
?”

“Near the Qishan, yes, it is conducting a training
exercise now. The purpose of that flight is to bring technicians up to the 
Qishan
 to work on getting the reactor
restarted, I am helping them with that.”

“Training, huh? Who is aboard that Dragon?” A
roster popped up on the console in front of me. “Uh, that’s quite an
international crew for an American dropship.”

“An American crew flew the Dragon up to the
Qishan, now an international team is using it for training. The stated purpose
of the current flight is to simulate a boarding operation.”

“Yeah, that makes sense. Can you fake orders to
get that Dragon over to the 
Dutchman
,
and block any real orders coming from Earth, or from the 
Qishan
?”

“Doing that now, aaaand, done. I have control of
the Dragon’s comm system, they will only hear messages I send. Transmitting
orders now. Joe, I have a question; you intend to bring those people aboard the

Dutchman
 under false pretenses? Is
that not considered dishonorable?”

“Once they are aboard the ship, we can tell them
the truth and they can decide whether to sign on. We need people, Skippy. I
need to give Smythe options for assembling a team.”

“We do need soldiers, Joe. Doing the best I can.
Starting descent now,” he said as I felt the nose drop slightly. Although I was
in the cockpit and strapped into the pilot seat, I did not take over the
controls, as I didn’t have good situational awareness yet and had to trust
Skippy to fly me to wherever he planned to pick up Smythe.

Crap. 
If

Smythe could make the rendezvous. “Does Smythe have a security team with him?”

“Not anymore. It’s a long story, Joe. Shut up and
hang on.”

 

When the call from Skippy made his zPhone buzz, Lt.
Colonel Jeremy Ewan Smythe was up to his chest in icy-cold water, fording a
stream in the rugged Scottish Highlands. He was not plunging himself into
frigid water as part of an assigned and therefore mandatory military exercise,
he had volunteered for an adventure race because of course that is what Jeremey
Smythe liked to do during his leisure time. He also enjoyed scuba diving, sky
diving, hang gliding and plenty of other activities Joe Bishop would describe
as falling into the category of ‘crazy shit’. The current activity was a
hundred-kilometer foot race for teams of four, over trails and barely-visible
tracks that could not truly be described as trails. Part of the race required
sticking to the defined trail, other sections allowed teams to strike out away
from the trail to cut straight across the countryside if they thought they
could save time. To make matters more complicated, the teams had to contact checkpoints
along the way, and the only navigation gear they could bring was a compass and
a map provided by the race organizers. Because the map was handed out less than
ten minutes before the race started, the teams did not have much time to
identify the required checkpoints and plan a route before the starting gun
fired. To make the experience even more jolly, there was a chilly rainstorm
blowing in from the Faroe Islands and visibility at times was less than a quarter
mile.

Jeremy Smythe was exhausted and hungry, his soaked
shirt was chafing his neck and he had tweaked an ankle stumbling on a hidden
rock while fording a stream. He had not been so happy since he left the surface
of Gingerbread.

The phone kept buzzing as he slogged through the
water and onto the muddy bank, last of the four-man team. Technically, the four-
person
 team included one woman, who
jogged slowly with a look of mild annoyance as she waited for her three male companions
to catch up.

“One moment,” Smythe gasped, hearing his
waterlogged shoes squish on the muddy trail. He kept running while he extracted
the zPhone from a pouch on the side of his water pack.

“You brought a 
phone
?”
His teammate Katie Frey wagged a finger accusingly. “That’s against the rules!
You’ll get us DQ’ed.” She was not alone in looking at Smythe with dismay, none
of the team wanted to risk being disqualified after running for four grueling
hours in bad weather. Besides, they were in third place!

“This is a special phone,” he waved the
credit-card-thin alien device that Skippy had somehow smuggled to him. “It must
be an emergency,” Smythe lied, for he feared a certain dodgy beer can may have
simply become bored and wanted someone to talk to. If Skippy wanted to sing showtunes,
Smythe planned to tuck the phone under a rock and keep going. “Hello?”

“That is what you do for 
fun
?”

Smythe gritted his teeth. “I’m busy,” was about to
fling the alien phone away when a shout stopped him.

“Sorry! We have a 
major
 problem.”

That made Smythe slow down, waving for his
teammates to continue. Instead, they also slowed to keep pace slightly ahead of
him. “What?”

“The UN has decided to surrender to the Jeraptha
before the Maxolhx get here, in the hope that the Rindhalu coalition will protect
Earth.”

“
Bollocks
!”
Smythe stopped running, stunned. “We’ll be caught in the bloody crossfire.”

“Exactly. What matters to you right now is UNEF
Command is trying to seize the 
Flying
Dutchman
, so Joe is pulling together whoever he can to take the ship out
ASAP, and kill those two Maxolhx ships before they reach Earth.”

“
Bloody hell
.”
The shocked look on Smythe’s face made his companions halt on the trail, and he
held up a finger for silence.

“Bloody hell indeed. A Delta Force team is aboard
the ship and Captain Poole is attempting to deal with those cheeky buggers. Joe
needs to know, are you in? There is a dropship on the way to pick you up. It is
only fair to warn you the crew roster will be very thin, most of the Pirates
are on lock-down. The RAF has a pair of helicopters coming to take you into
custody. Don’t worry! I scrambled their avionics gear, they will have to land
soon, well away from you. So, Colonel Smythe, are you in?”

“You are damned right I’m in,” Smythe declared.

“You’re sure? Joe mumbled some blah blah blah
about disobeying orders or other meaningless shit like that.”

“I have not received 
any
 orders,” he insisted, lowering his voice to avoid being
overheard.

It didn’t work.

One of the team was a fellow member of 22 Special
Air Services Regiment, a man named Jason Nunnally who Smythe had never served
with, but who had been eager to join the race team on short notice. On hearing
the team leader say the word ‘orders’, Nunnally acted instantly.

Jason Nunnally was fast. Katie Frey was faster. If
the man had been casual about unzipping his waist-pack and reaching in, she might
have assumed he was getting an energy bar to eat. Instead, he made an abrupt
motion that set off alarms in her brain and she reacted without waiting for her
decision-making capability to catch up. Trusting her instincts in hazardous
situations was an ingrained habit from her training. As Nunnally pulled out the
pistol and lifted it to point at Smythe, she chopped his weapon-holding arm
aside with a blow to the elbow, while her other hand delivered a vicious kidney
punch and slammed into the man from behind for both of them to sprawl in the
mud. Nunnally grunted from pain and rolled to one side to throw her off. A
kidney punch would disable most men, even a tough SAS soldier was not fully
capable after such a painful injury. The two wrestled, rolling over in the
sodden grass and heath, until Nunnally got a hand free and around her throat.

He froze when he felt the cold steel of his own
pistol pressed hard against his temple. “You want to think twice about that,”
Smythe advised in a calm manner. Seeing the futility of resisting, Nunnally
slumped to the ground, his teeth grinding as waves of pain radiated from his
lower back.

“Colonel,” Frey rose warily to her feet, not
taking time or energy to wipe the clumps of matted grass and mud from her face.
“What the
 hell
 is going on, if you
don’t mind?”

“I’m sorry,” Nunnally rocked back and forth on the
ground, the pain now overwhelming. 

“
I’m

sorry,” Frey retorted. “You’ll be peeing blood for a week.”

“Orders,” Nunnally ignored her, focusing his
attention on Smythe. “It was orders, y’ understand? Colonel,” he grimaced.
“What the bloody hell 
is
 going on? My
orders didn’t explain why the Army wants you detained.”

“I understand,” Smythe dropped beside the injured
man, holding the spout of his water pack to the man’s lips. “Drink this,
Nunnally. Staff Sergeant Grudzien, Lieutenant Frey,” he looked up to his team
mates. “The United Nations has decided to surrender us to the Jeraptha.”

“The 
Jeraptha
?”
Frey asked, astonished. “Patrons of the Ruhar? They’re our enemy.”

Smythe shook his head. “
Everyone
 up there is our enemy, but the real enemy at the moment
are the Kristang and Thuranin.”

“You came here aboard a 
Thuranin
 ship,” Frey took a half-step backward. Had she made a
mistake by not picking up the pistol?

“A Thuranin ship that we captured, then we killed
the entire crew. Lieutenant, the truth is a bloody 
long
 tale, don’t believe UNEF’s cover story. Surely you have heard
rumors?”

Silently, she nodded, and Grudzien joined her.
They had both heard rumors, and the official story from UNEF Command had not
made much sense.

Smythe stood up and discarded his water pack,
dropping it gently onto Nunnally’s chest. “I don’t have much time,” he looked
to the gray sky. How close was the dropship? In the gusty wind, he would likely
not hear it approach until it was within a couple kilometers. “UNEF Command is
attempting to seize control of the 
Flying
Dutchman
, and Colonel Bishop plans to take the ship out to-”

“Excuse me, Sir,” Justin Grudzien waved a hand,
speaking carefully to be understood in his Polish accent. “
Colonel
 Bishop? The only Bishop I know in your crew is a sergeant.”

“Bishop got a field promotion direct to colonel
while he was on Paradise. I know,” he nodded at three shocked faces. “New war,
new reality, new rules,” he explained. “Bishop is captain of the ship, he was
in command of the raid back when they captured the ship from the Thuranin.
Don’t let his youth and media image fool you, he is a bloody brilliant
commander. The 
best
 I have ever
served with. There are a pair of Maxolhx warships coming to Earth- I know this
is a lot to process. Bishop is taking the ship out stop the Maxolhx, and I’m
joining him. Apparently,” he looked with pity at Nunnally, “someone has a
different idea what we should be doing.”

“My orders,” Nunnally grunted in pain, “were only
to hold you until the RAF arrives. They didn’t tell me why. I might have told
them to go to hell if they’d told me the truth.”

“The Royal Air Force will not be joining us as
scheduled,” Smythe allowed a smile to flash across his face. “A dropship,” he
pointed to the low clouds, “is on its way to bring me to the 
Dutchman
. Then we are going out to kick
in the teeth of the Maxolhx.”

“What about us?” Grudzien asked, cocking his head
to listen for approaching airspace craft.

“Your best option would be to stay here with Nunnally,
I’ll call in your position once I’m in orbit. The RAF can pick you up.”

“What are our other options?” Frey scrapped mud
away from her face and ran fingers through her matted ponytail.

“You?” Smythe shrugged. “You have no other
options,” his hand tensed around the pistol he held, muzzle pointed at the
ground away from his feet. He had carefully judged the distance between
himself, Frey and Grudzien, they were far enough away for him to be safe. For
their safety, too, they both knew they had no chance to try anything rash.

“What if we want to join you?” Frey glanced at Grudzien.

“Er,” Justin Grudzien held up his hands. “My wife
just had a baby four months ago. I can’t deploy now, not offworld.”

“I’m not married,” Katie stated, for the first
time grateful her last relationship had broken up three months prior. “Can I go
with you?”

Smythe suppressed a groan. Too many people in the
special operations community around the globe wanted to join the Merry Band of
Pirates, without full and careful consideration for the sacrifices involved.
The last thing the ship needed was a star-struck amateur. Except Katie Frey was
not an amateur. She was a lieutenant with the Canadian Joint Task Force 2, in
Britain for joint training exercises with the SAS. Smythe had not intended to
create an international team for the race, it had worked that way when he
contacted people to assemble a team. Sergeant Justin Grudzien served with the Polish
Army 
Grupa Reagowania Operacyjno-Manewrowego
 or ‘
GROM’ anti-terrorist unit,
also in Britain as part of the joint training exercise. When the exercises had
ended three day ago, Frey and Grudzien had been the first to agree
enthusiastically when Smythe proposed to put together a team for the adventure
race. “Lieutenant, Staff Sergeant, think carefully,” he thought his ears
detected the whine of a dropship’s turbines. “This would be certain suicide for
your careers. You need to-”

“What if you fail up there?” Katie pointed to the
sky. No one had ever accused her of being shy. “If those Maxolhx ships get here?”

“Everyone on Earth dies,” Smythe explained. “Maybe
a few lucky ones will become slaves for a while.”

“Is surrendering to the Jeraptha any better?”

“No,” Smythe shook his head emphatically. “It is
not.”

Grudzien shot Frey a warning glance, fearing she
was caught up in the moment. “Colonel, then why is UNEF planning to contact
these Jeraptha?”

“Because the bloody politicians have their heads
up their arses,” Smythe spat. “They haven’t been out there. We have no allies
in the galaxy, and the Jeraptha won’t help us. Even if they wanted to, they
can’t. The war up there is too big and been going on for too long. No one is
going to risk their own security to help our little planet.”

“I 
am

going with you,” Frey looked up rather than at Smythe. They all heard an
aircraft approaching, and it was not a helicopter. “Before you ask, yes, I am
sure. I have only one question, Colonel Smythe.”

Smythe knew when not to argue, he also knew he was
lucky to be bringing someone up to the 
Dutchman

with him. “What is that?”

She looked down at her mud-smeared clothing and
shoes. “Will there be a change of clothes aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
?”

Smythe opened his mouth to reply with typically
dry humor, then hesitated. “I actually do not know how the ship is
provisioned,” he admitted. “Colonel Bishop will see to that, I am certain. The
ship also has fabrication facilities,” he added hopefully, with more hope than
certainty. Before the ship returned to Earth, Skippy had warned the fabricators
were one of many systems that were wearing out due to lack of replacement
parts.

Nunnally grimaced, pushing himself painfully to
his feet. “Colonel Smythe, if you’ll have me, I would like to go with you.”

Smythe was astonished and uncharacteristically
spoke before thinking. “Are you daft, man?”

“I did not know what is at stake, Sir,” Nunnally
explained. “If you mission up there fails, everyone on Earth dies, you are sure
of that?”

“Dead certain.”

“I have a wife and two children,” Nunnally’s eyes
flicked to Grudzien briefly. “I want them to live, it is simple as that.”

Holding the pistol with his left hand and pointing
it safely at the ground but ready for trouble, Smythe held out his right hand,
and Nunnally shook it briefly. “I could use a good SAS man up there,” Smythe
admitted.

“No hard feelings, Sir?”

“Nunnally, aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
 we will be in a desperate fight for the survival of
humanity, there will be no room or time for 
feelings
.”

Despite the pain radiating from his bruised
kidneys, Nunnally smiled. “Bloody good, Colonel. I wouldn’t have it any other
way.”

“Oh, hell,” Staff Sergeant Grudzien groaned. “This
is life or death, for everyone?”

“More than you can imagine,” Smythe nodded once,
slowly.

Grudzien looked up to where the high-pitched whine
of turbines was coming out of the thick clouds. He had a duty to his wife and
child at home, he also had a duty to keep them alive and safe, and he couldn’t
do that dirtside while others went to the stars to fight. Holding out a hand,
he asked “Can I borrow that special phone you have, Colonel? This is going to
take a bit of explaining. My wife expects me back home in three days.”

 

Skippy had contacted as many former Pirates as he
could, most of them were already in what the authorities called ‘protective
custody’ and were not able to help. Others were hesitant to participate in what
they viewed as a mutiny. One former Pirate told Skippy he thought the world’s
governments may be right, that Earth could not continuing trying to fight the
entire galaxy with a single broken-down starship. “I’m sorry,” the man
reluctantly told the beer can. “We did great things out there, I’m proud of my
service with the Pirates, but what we did ultimately attracted the attention of
the Maxolhx.”

The only American former Pirate he could contact,
who was willing and able to deploy immediately, was one Navy pilot on a
deep-sea fishing trip off the coast of Mobile Alabama. Commander Jim Porter had
been about to crack open his first beer of the morning when Skippy called him,
and the appearance of a Thuranin dropship was the highlight of the day for the
charter boat’s customers and crew. One of his fishing companions was an Air
Force pilot who had come along partly to hear war stories from Porter. “Sir,”
Lieutenant Alan Edwards said with one eye on Porter and one on the dropship
descending vertically over the fishing boat that was rocking side to side from
the force of the dropship’s belly jets. “I want to go with you!”

Porter turned, startled, and leaned toward the
young pilot, cupping a hand over one ear. With the Falcon in hover and lowering
a self-guiding cable, it was hard to hear over the whoosh of the turbines, the
spray kicked up, and the fishing boat’s diesels as the charter captain tried to
keep his boat steady. “What?”

“Commander, I, want to, come with, you!” Edwards
emphasized his shouted words by pointing to himself, then the Merry Pirate,
then gesturing toward the hovering Falcon.

“Do you know what you’re getting yourself into?”
Porter shouted back, looking up to watch the cable as it steered toward him.

“No Sir!” Edwards replied, holding out a hand to
steady Porter’s shoulder as the boat rocked. “Neither do you!”

Porter glanced away from the cable for a second. When
Skippy had called on a regular cellphone, he told Porter the 
Flying Dutchman
 would likely be going
out with a skeleton crew, barely enough to operate the ship. Another pilot
would undoubtedly be useful. “Edwards, you have the right attitude! Grab this
cable!”

The end of the cable blossomed as Edwards grasped
it, the nanofibers reforming to wrap around his torso, both legs and under his
arms. Before he could think twice or give a thumbs up that he was ready,
Edwards was lifted off the deck of the boat, the cable yanking him sideways to
avoid crashing into the boat’s cabin. As he tried to relax and not
instinctively fight that super-high-tech alien cable that was pulling him up
toward a woman leaning out of the dropship’s ramp, Edwards felt a thrill of
excitement, and at least a tiny bit of self-doubt. “I sure hope to hell I know
what I’m doing,” he muttered to himself and closed his eyes for a moment.

 

With Edwards and Porter aboard, the Falcon’s ramp
closed and the craft began climbing, gently at first then standing on its tail
while the three passengers strapped in as best they could, unable to reach the
cockpit. Simms leaned toward Porter to whisper. “Picking up strays, Commander?”
She pointed to Edwards with a thumb.

Porter shrugged. “Skippy told me we are thin on
personnel, and he’s a pilot. If he doesn’t work out, we can send him back
down.”

“I don’t know about that,” Simms bit her lip,
wishing Porter had cleared his action with her, before offering to bring a new
and unknown person aboard. It was too late to land the Falcon now, they were soaring
over the Gulf of Mexico and- “Wait!” Simms slapped a hand on the armrest.
“Skippy, we have one more stop.”

“You are 
kidding

me, right?” The beer can gasped.

“No, I am not. We need to land,” she fiddled with
the map function of her phone. Even modified by Skippy, the brand-new phone was
painfully slow compared to a zPhone. She looked for a target close to the
Falcon’s projected flightpath up to rendezvous with the 
Flying Dutchman
. At that point, the starship was over the other
side of the planet, so it might have been faster to fly over Australia then
reverse course.

“Land again? I told you, there isn’t anyone else
we can pick up,” Skippy protested. “Not without a violent confrontation. We
must proceed to the 
Flying Dutchman

immed-”

“No. Here. Land 
here
,” Simms jabbed a finger at the map on her phone.

“Colonel Simms,” the beer can complained, “we are
taking a risk by landing again.”

“You think the FBI is waiting for us at a Publix
supermarket in Florida?”

“Ah, sarcasm. No, I doubt that-”

“Then do it.”

“Ok, 
fine
.
Do you want to hit the drive-through for a McFlurry too? Maybe land in front of
a drug store so you can stock up on cute nail polish?”

“Skippy,” Simms gritted her teeth as the Falcon
heeled over in a tight turn. “If I’m going to be stuck out there for years with
a beer can and a ship full of monkeys, cute nail polish is a must-have. Don’t
argue with me.”

The AI did not speak until the Falcon flared for landing.
“Make it quick, please. Your Air Force vectored a pair of F-35s toward us, they
will be in weapons range in less than ten minutes.”

“I’ll be back in four minutes,” Simms swallowed
hard to control her queasy stomach and unstrapped, shielding her eyes from dust
swirling in the open ramp, kicked up by the belly jets.

Porter rose from his seat. “I’ll go with you,” he
offered, but Simms shook her head, waving him back as she sprinted down to
ramp.

“What the hell is she 
doing
?” Edwards asked, unstrapping from his seat and walking back
to stand at the top of the ramp, watching the woman run and stumble across what
appeared to be a construction site next to the shopping center. The ground had
been cleared of trees and scraped mostly flat, piles of sand and puddles of wet
mud the color of black coffee dotted the land like landmines. She weaved around
the mud, slipping and Simms nearly fell, windmilling her arms. Then she was in
the parking lot and dodging cars that had screeched to a halt, their drivers
astonished at the sight of the big alien dropship plopped down in a muddy
suburban field. Two cars had collided head-on, their drivers still sitting
behind the wheel, transfixed by the sight of the sleek airspace craft, its
skids sunk halfway into the rain-drenched ground, steam rising from under its
belly jets and twin turbines.

“She is the logistics officer,” Porter speculated,
“maybe there is some vital item we need.”

“A vital item that’s available at a Publix?”
Edwards shook his head in alarm as Porter opened a locker, pulling out a
Kristang rifle. “Sir, what are you doing with that?”

“In case some law-abiding citizen decides to
perform his civic duty by getting in our way. This can 
discourage
 any idiots,” Porter explained, flipping off the safety
and deselecting the explosive tips. All he wanted to do was get people’s
attention, if needed.

It was not needed. Less than a minute after entering
the building, Simms came racing out, carrying a cardboard box and tossing a
handful of dollar bills on the sidewalk as she ran. When she got close to the
ramp, Edwards looked quizzically at Porter, holding his hands palms up in a
‘what the hell?’ gesture, but the Navy pilot only shook his head with a
sheepish grin.

Simms pounded up the ramp and the sleek machine
was already lifting off as the three secured themselves in the seats. She
struggled to tug a seatbelt strap around the cardboard box.

“Ma’am,” Porter shouted over the screaming belly
jets as the ramp was still closing. “What did you get?”

Simms did not answer with words. With a wink and
grin, she opened the box and pulled out a plastic jar of marshmallow Fluff,
real Fluff. Flipping the lid aside showed the box was full of jars, their red
plastic lids lined up.

“You are 
kidding

me,” Porter’s face fell.

Simms shook her head, and she was no longer
smiling. “The last time we left Earth, I brought a case of 
generic
 marshmallow cream aboard, and Colonel Bishop wanted to
perform an exorcism against it. I had to toss the whole case out an airlock,
it’s still floating in orbit for all I know. I am 
not
 making that mistake again this time.”

“Colonel Simms, shame on you,” Skippy’s voice
broke in. “I’m having to climb your Falcon straight up to avoid those F-35, and
you brought a box of processed sugar?”

“A box of pure deliciousness, according to our
fearless leader.”

“That was still a foolish risk,” the AI
admonished.

“Really?” She arched an eyebrow. “We may be gone a
very long time, trying to defeat the most powerful enemy in the galaxy. Do you
want Colonel Bishop to be happy, or cranky?”

“Um, good point. I guess that was 
excellent
 judgment. Hang on, everyone,
those F-35s just launched missiles at us. I’ve engaged stealth but I don’t want
to enable point-defense masers to avoid collateral damage below us, so I’m
going to a full-power climb.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER SIX

 

“Seven against one,” Rodriguez advised whoever was
blocking their way. It was not a good situation. The figure standing in the
passageway was wearing the same type of Kristang powered armor, and most likely
was more familiar with the alien equipment. While the Delta team could select armor-piercing
explosive-tipped rounds from their rifle magazines, they were under strict
orders not to risk damaging the irreplaceable starship. Even a ricochet could
destroy a vital piece of equipment that had no spare.

What truly bothered Rodriguez was not knowing his
opponent. The duty officer had assured him no one aboard the ship would or
could oppose his team, so who was the armor-suited person blocking his path to
the CIC?! “Put down your weapon. Under orders from the-”

“Sorry, couldn’t hear you,” the figure shook its
head. “You are intruders aboard 
our

ship. You put down 
your
 weapons.”

Our

ship, the figure said, a slip Rodriguez picked up on immediately. His opponent
felt the ship belonged to them, and the voice was female. Unless the Merry Band
of Pirates had snuck someone aboard, he must be facing United States Army
Ranger Captain Lauren Poole. “Captain Poole, step aside. My team will kill you
if necessary, but we 
are
 taking
control of this ship.” Softening his voice, he tried another tactic. “It is
four of us against one of you, and I have three more men in the aft section.
You don’t stand a chance and you know it.”

 

Lauren Poole rarely had the opportunity to enjoy
herself while in action, especially as much of the action she had seen had
required her to babysit Colonel Bishop on away missions. Action meant combat
and that meant chaos and danger and death and there was nothing enjoyable about
that. The frantic high-speed nature of modern combat also meant she would not
have the time to reflect on whether she was enjoying herself, until the
fighting was over.

Thus, she was determined to enjoy the 
hell
 out of this particular moment. “
Really
?” She said in the tone women use
when a guy says something egregiously stupid. “You may want to check your math
on that.”

 

Rodriguez opened his mouth to order his team to
engage, when his suit suddenly lost power. All power. His visor went dark, then
faded to clear, providing an unenhanced view in front of him. The soldier to
his left slumped forward, trying to stop his fall but unable to move quickly
enough without the suit’s nanomotors assisting him. While in use, a Kristang
suit felt light as a feather. Without power to its tiny motors, it was heavy
and awkward, stiff and unyielding. The soldier fell forward stiffly to crash
onto his face, bouncing off the deck and bumping into Rodriguez, who nearly
fell also. “Team!” He shouted before remembering no one could hear him. With
the suit’s arm resisting him, he reached up with one hand to open his visor.
They had procedures for suit power loss, although the subtext of those
procedures were of the ‘kiss your ass goodbye’ nature. “Team!” He called out,
and centered his rifle on the target. 

His next word died away as two menacing combots
stomped out from doors on either side of Poole. They formed up to almost block
his view of the armor-suited Ranger, and he heard and felt the deck shake
behind him. More of the powerful Thuranin machines were blocking his only
option for retreat.

The two in front had their large cannons pointed
at his chest. As he swayed slightly in the heavy armor, the cannon muzzles
moved to track him.

“Those cannons will cause severe damage to the
ship,” Rodriguez warned.

“Ah, it’s happened before, and we rebuilt it,”
Poole dismissed the issue. “Can you rebuild yourself or your team?”

Rodriguez was at a loss for what to do. His orders
had not included a scenario in which he faced overwhelming firepower. “I am not
authorized to surrender.”

Poole shook her head in disbelief. The Delta Force
drew its members largely from the 75
th
 Rangers, from 
her
 unit. She did not know Rodriguez,
but she might know some of the men with him. “Are you authorized to die for
nothing, you dumb shit? Those are your only two options.”

“Captain, please, my superiors-”

“Your superiors are not up here, are they? Hell
no. Listen, whoever you are,” she could have asked Skippy to identify the
intruders, but she simply did not care. Taking a risk, she opened her faceplate
and stepped forward, standing on her toes so she could be seen by the opposing
team, including the two who had fallen and were lying on their sides. “Either
you drop your weapons and live to fight another day, 
or
, you become a temporary dark stain on a bulkhead. I know what I
would choose. Especially if I were responsible for six other lives.”

“Captain,” Rodriguez looked right then left, being
careful not to let the movements overbalance his heavy suit, “it has become
clear that 
one
 of us needs to
surrender.”

 

The duty officer in the CIC was growing impatient
with the glacial pace of the Delta team. She talked with them, she could
monitor their progress on location sensors, she could even watch every step
they took. Along their way forward, the Deltas confronted and secured Captain
Poole, disarming that woman and providing great relief to the CIC crew. Poole
was popular with the crew, even with those few people secretly tasked with
taking over the ship. The duty officer would have regretted any harm coming to
Poole, a steadfast Ranger who was only doing her duty to the best of her
ability.

It was irritating how slowly, carefully and
methodically the Delta team was making their way forward. The team leader
insisted his tactics were sound, with the alien dead or disabled, the only
dangers that could be aboard the ship were ones the CIC crew could not
identify. Accordingly, there was a delay while the Deltas cleared the ship
compartment by compartment, working their way forward from the rear cargo bays
of the forward section. That cold logic made sense and it was annoying, perhaps
the duty officer should not have told the assault team leader that the ship was
already under control.

Thus it was with relief that she heard the
distinctive hard clomping sounds of Kristang powered armor boots on the deck,
as she saw on the main display the Delta team coming up the final passageway
toward the CIC.

And, thus it was with utter shock that she saw Captain
Poole, her suit faceplate set to clear, walk into the CIC with a hulking combot
right behind her. “How come
 I
 wasn’t
invited to this par-
tay
? This place
looks dead, let’s liven it up a little,” and she shot the duty officer and
three others with stun bolts before they could protest.

“Lauren?” Sami struggled to her feet from where
she had been sitting on the deck, her back to a bulkhead. With her wrists
cuffed behind her back, it was awkward pushing herself upright.

“Sorry, Sami,” Poole kept her faceplate closed in
case of trouble. “If you’ll turn around,” she gestured with one hand.

Sami turned her back to Poole, and felt the suit’s
powerful gloves grip the handcuffs, then snap them easily. “Ah!” When the cuffs
broke, the metal bashed against her wrists. “I’m fine,” she rubbed her wrists
then stooped to pick up the small pistol somehow snuck aboard by the duty
officer, who was now slumped unconscious on the deck. “What the hell is going
on?”

“It’s complicated. What you need to know first is,
Skippy is alive and well.”

“Large and in charge?” Sami asked hopefully. She
had feared the maser blast might have sent the beer can into another coma-like
‘holiday’.

“Never better!” Skippy’s voice boomed out of the speakers.

“The Delta Force team is disarmed and locked in a
cargo bay, they can’t do us any harm,” Poole kept her rifle pointed safely at
the deck, but in the general direction of the four CIC crew who had backed away
from their consoles to avoid a painful stun bolt. “Colonel Bishop is on his way
up in a dropship, along with some others.”

“Outstanding,” Reed looked around the CIC, where
the crew who were not unconscious were holding up their hands while fearfully
watching every move by the armor-suited Poole. “In that case,” she nudged the
former duty officer with a foot to make sure the woman was truly down for the
count. “Lauren, maybe we better police this mess before the Colonel arrives.”

 

 

The prospect of facing people I did not know,
people who were not Pirates accustomed to how our missions typically operated,
had me questioning myself. Did I have a right to essentially steal humanity’s
only starship, and take it on a mission that the majority of the world’s
governments had deemed foolish, even dangerous and counter-productive?

“What’s wrong, Sir?” Simms cocked her head at me.

We were in the CIC, getting the equipment set up
for departure, while Reed and Porter were handling pilot duties. Smythe had
brought three new people with him, one of them was in sickbay being treated for
a bruised kidney. After the guy saw the scary medical bots controlled by Doctor
Skippy, he may have had second thoughts about leaving Earth. The Dragon
dropship from the Yu Qishan had just docked and I was preparing for appeal to that
crew, and the Delta team that had tried to capture the ship, to join us as
renegades. The bullshit speech I gave on Paradise, to pull together the
original Merry Band of Pirates, might have been easier. “Simms,” I sighed, “what
the hell am I doing?”

“Putting together a crew and giving humanity our
best shot at survival?”

“Thanks for the vote of confidence. We are all
risking our careers, and maybe a long sentence in prison even if we are
successful out there. This is treason, you know that, right? Not just
technically treason, this is the real deal. We are renegades now, outlaws. Skippy
has blocked orders from reaching our ears but we know the truth; the Army down
there is demanding that we hand over control of the ship.”

“
If 
they
are,” she shot me a disparaging look, “they’re doing it because the government
is telling them what to say, not because they think surrendering to aliens is a
good idea. Sir.”

“It’s not that easy. We-”

“Adams isn’t here,” Simms observed. “This sounds
like the kind of pep talk she would give. Would it help if I told you what I
think 
she
 would say?”

“Uh,” I was missing our Marine Corps Gunnery
Sergeant already. “Yeah, actually.”

“Fine. Then, excuse me, Sir, but that’s bullshit.
It 
is
 that easy. If we stop now, turn
the 
Dutchman
 over to the UN or
whoever, and they take her out to reveal the truth to the Jeraptha, what will
happen to Earth?” I didn’t have to answer because she did it for me. “Both
sides of the war will come here to fight over our home world. Even if we get
lucky and the Rindhalu are too lazy to act, the Thuranin and Kristang are
pissed off at us enough to turn Earth into radioactive slag. The 
best
 scenario is they ravage our planet
and a small group of humans survive as slaves. You know that. You 
know
 that for damned certain, yet you
are still questioning whether to turn this ship over to a bunch of frightened
dirtsiders? They haven’t been out there,” she gestured to the star map on the
main CIC display.

“I wish I shared your clarity.”

“Clear-thinking is easy, because the issue is
simple. Let me break it down for you Barney style,” a ghost of a smile crossed
her lips when she said that. “There are only four options, unless I’m missing
something.” She ticked the numbers off on one hand. “One, we allow the UN to
take the ship out and contact the Jeraptha. Two, we hold the ship here and hope
the world’s governments come to their senses, which means we lose time we may need
to stop the Maxolhx. Three, we do nothing and let the Maxolhx come here. And
four,” she waved her index finger for emphasis. “Four, we take the ship out and
give our species a fighting chance.”

“Simms, I don’t have a plan. I have 
no idea
 if we can do this.”

“Do you see a fifth option?”

“No,” I admitted.

“Skippy,” she automatically looked toward the
speaker in the ceiling. “How about you?”

“To me, Options One and Three are the same, either
way you monkeys are toast. Option Two sounds like a gutless way to pass the
buck. To answer your question, no, I do not see any other options.”

“Option Four is the 
only
 possibility in which humanity has a chance to survive,” her
face lost its stern glare, and suddenly Simms was just another frightened
person, pleading for me to do something, anything.

“I can’t argue with that. Ah, even if we fail, and
the Maxolhx discover we tried to blow up two of their ships, it actually won’t
be any worse for us.”

“True,” Skippy interjected. “There really is no
downside for you monkeys.”

When he was trying to be serious, I wish Skippy
would not refer to my people as ‘monkeys’. “Can you-”

“Of course, 
I

also thought there would be no downside to giving the Jeraptha a heads-up when
the Thuranin planned a sneak attack, and that 
totally
 backfired on us big time. So maybe I’m not the best person
to ask.”

Simms and I shared a look and shook our heads. “Skippy,”
I explained, “sometimes full disclosure is not necessary.”

“Oh. Isn’t honesty always the best policy, or some
bullshit like that?”

“There’s a difference between deliberately lying,
and just not mentioning unpleasant facts. I already know not to trust
everything you tell me.”

“That hurts, Joe. Not as much as blindly trusting
me might hurt 
you
, but it hurts
anyway.”

“Simms,” I turned my attention back to her before
Skippy got me off on a tangent. “I agree it looks like trying to stop those
Maxolhx ships is our only viable option. That’s the problem.”

“That we only have one option?”

“No. That it’s our only option, in 
my
 judgment. Christ, Simms, I am one
person. Do I have the right to make that decision for all the people of Earth?”

“If their idiotic short-sighted judgment is
suicide for our species, then yes you have to make that call for them.”

She did not have me entirely convinced. No one at
my age should have to make life-or-death decisions for an entire world. No one
person, no matter their age or experience, should have to make that call. “Maybe
if our society is that short-sighted, we don’t deserve to survive,” I muttered
half to myself.

“
Philosophy
,
Sir?”

“It wasn’t phil-”

“It sure 
sounded

like philosophy.” Her hands were on her hips and I knew I was in big trouble. “The
United States Army does not allow excuses. I’m not sure their view on
battlefield philosophers, but I’m betting they are not encouraged.”

“Goddam it, Simms, I’m a soldier.”

“You’re a 
commander
,
sir. We need more decisiveness and less mamby-pamby whining,” Simms channeled
her inner Margaret Adams.

“There is an entire planet full of people down
there who-”

“Screw them.”

“Uh, what?”

“Screw ‘em,” she shrugged. “You don’t know those
people, so don’t make decisions for them. Make a decision for your family. For my
family.”

“For our families. Ok. Got it. Simms, get the ship
booted up for a short jump. I have a crew to bamboozle into a truly idiotic
scheme. Wish me luck.”

“You won’t have a problem with that, Sir,” she
assured me with a grin, but I noticed there was a catch in her voice. Was she just
anxious about our upcoming mission, or was she doubting me as much as I doubted
myself?

“I won’t?”

“No, Sir,” she winked. “You persuaded 
me 
to follow you on Paradise, way back
when you were a publicity-stunt colonel whose biggest accomplishment was
planting potatoes.”

“Great,” I muttered. “No pressure on me.”

 

Before I tried to get people to commit mutiny with
me, I needed to talk with the beer can. “Hey, Skippy, is the ship squared away
now? We are screwed if there was any sabotage and we need equipment from Earth
to fix it.”

“Kinda busy right now, Joe, no time to talk. What
you need to know is the ship is Okey-dokey, I think. I have bots checking
everything from nose to tail, while Nagatha integrates into-”

“Wait! Nagatha? She’s 
back
?” Damn, that was the best news I had heard since we returned
to Earth.

“She is not fully operational yet, dumdum, that’s
why I said she is still integrating into shipboard systems. Nagatha will be the
ship’s AI and primary control system, unless you distract me with stupid
questions and I screw up her startup sequence.”

“Got it. Keep me updated on her progress.”

 

There were three groups of people aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
. A small group of people
I could not trust, including the three CIC crew who had pointed a pistol at
Reed or tried to blow up Skippy’s mancave, plus the leader of the Delta team.
Truthfully, I had been hoping the Delta leader would sign on as a Pirate, but
he told me privately that he felt responsible for his team and he had to go
back down to Earth, even if all his people went to the stars with us. That sentiment
got my respect although I was disappointed with the result.

The second group were people who flat-out told me
or Simms or Skippy that they wanted to go back to Earth, and no amount of
persuasion by me could change their minds.

Everyone else, forty four people, were assembled
in a cargo bay to listen to the line of bullshit I cooked up while walking from
the CIC. Really, of the forty four possible recruits, three were pretty much a
sure thing; the three people who had been on the adventure race team with
Smythe. Privately, Smythe had told me he needed an absolute minimum of eight
special operators, in addition to himself and Lauren Poole. We also needed
pilots, because Jim Porter and Samantha Reed could not fly the ship and
dropships by themselves. While I could probably fly the ship with help from
Nagatha, my skills were simply not good enough for delicate away missions in
stealthy dropships.

My first encounter with the pool of potential new
Pirates did not begin well. I explained the situation, assuming everyone had already
been briefed on the true nature of the 
Flying
Dutchman
 and Skippy and everything else UNEF Command was still trying to
keep hidden from the general public. The information that two Maxolhx starships
were coming to Earth 
was
 news to almost
everyone, and I should have let that data point sink in before I appealed for
people to join the Merry Band of Pirates. Public speaking is not my strength.
Also, I am kind of an idiot. So, my speech got interrupted.

“We should trust you, S-” The guy cocked his head,
looking to his companions for help. He was a Marine Raider, one of the group
aboard the Dragon dropship at the 
Yu
Qishan
, who we had lured aboard the 
Dutchman

under false orders. “Sergeant? Colonel? I’m confused.”

Him asking that question got me seriously pissed
off. Not at him, at the United States Army. I was sick of the ‘theater rank’
bullshit. It had been years since my promotion to colonel, which had been
unorthodox and not confirmed by proper authorities on Earth, but my promotion had
been granted by the proper command authorities on Paradise, and
 they
 did have authority from Earth. I
was no longer the scared and overwhelmed Specialist who had been whisked away
from my home planet and given an unexpected promotion to sergeant because of a
personnel shortage. When, or if, we ever returned to Earth, and assuming our
mission was successful so our return was triumphant, I was not taking any crap
from UNEF Command and Army leadership, or anyone. Basically, I was 
done
 with that shit. Making me change
rank every time Earth appeared in the ship’s viewports was disrespectful to the
fine people I commanded. “Colonel when I’m up here,” I stated while glaring at
the guy. That was different; in the past I would have shrugged and had a sheepish
expression on my face while saying that. “Aboard this ship,” I jabbed my right
index finger at the deck, “I am in command.”

“Yes, Sir,” he replied with a slightly questioning
uplift on the end when he said ‘sir’. “UNEF tried to take the ship away from
you,” he looked sideways at the Delta team, they must have talked. That was a
mistake, I should have kept the Delta guys isolated. Or maybe not. I was asking
people to volunteer for a mutinous mission that could end their careers even if
we succeeded in stopping the Maxolhx. People needed to make an informed
decision. “But we are supposed to trust you?”

“Ha!” Skippy’s voice boomed out of the speakers,
then his avatar appeared on top of a crate, glowing nearly four feet tall. He
intended the larger size to be impressive, but it just made his
even-more-ginormous hat extra ridiculous. “No way, dude! Joe is a knucklehead,
I wouldn’t trust him to run a lemonade stand.”

“Skippy-” I tried to interrupt but he was on a
roll.

“You wouldn’t 
believe

some of the stupid shit he has done.”

“Skippy!”

“And that is just the stuff he 
did
, forget about the 
truly
 moronic ideas he had that we
stopped him from doing.”

“SKIPPY! You are not helping.”

“I’m not helping 
you
, Joe. I 
am
 providing
useful information to the people you are trying to sucker into this lunatic
quest.”

“We should trust 
you
, then?” The Raider added more than a bit of skepticism into his
voice.

“Well, heh heh,” Skippy took off his hat and
scratched his shiny dome. “If you ask the monkeys who have served aboard this
ship, they would say that I am absent-minded and sneaky and a bit of an
asshole. Stupid monkeys,” he added under his breath.

That was more than I could take. “A 
bit
 of an asshole?” 

The guy’s eyes flicked between me and Admiral
Asshole. “We should not trust 
any
 of
you?”

Skippy’s tone lost all of its typical arrogant
snarkiness. “You should trust Lieutenant Colonel Smythe. His judgement, other
than his awful taste in music, has been flawless since he came aboard the ship
for our second mission. He is dedicated, supremely disciplined and the absolute
model of a professional warrior. Any of you aspiring to serve as Tier Zero
operators should listen to him.”

“We are Tier 
One
,”
a Delta guy snapped. “There is no Tier Zero.”

“Oh, bullshit,” Skippy barked back. “On Earth,
Delta Force or Detachment Delta or Task Force Green or whatever you want to
call yourselves, is 
one
 of the first
choices for US special operations, along with Navy SEAL teams. Aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
, Colonel Smythe’s team
is the 
only
 choice; they are Tier 
Zero
. I’ve read all your classified service
records and, 
meh
,” his avatar made an
exaggerated shrug. “Some of you took out ignorant amateur terrorists whose
training consisted of learning which end of an AK-47 is dangerous. Count me as 
not
 impressed, especially since a dozen
more terrorists popped up to replace the ones you killed. Aboard this ship,
there is 
no
 backup, 
no
 support, 
no
 second chances, and failure means loss of the ship, the crew and
your entire primitive species. Let 
that

sink into your thick monkey skull.”

Waving my hands got control of the murmuring
crowd. “What Skippy said was harsh,” I did not want to start by wounding the
considerable pride of the people I was hoping to recruit. “It was also true. I
want anyone who volunteers to be fully informed, so, any questions?”

One of the newbies raised a hand. “How long will
we be gone, Sir?”

“I do not know,” I answered honestly.

“How much food do we have aboard?” Asked a guy who
immediately got bonus points from me for asking a practical question. An army
travels on its stomach, and so do Pirates, whether they are Merry or newbies.

Simms answered that for me. “Even if everyone here
remains aboard the ship, we have food for seventeen months.”

The questions came thick and fast, I answered as
best I could. “To be clear, Sir, what is the mission?”

Again, I wanted to be completely honest. “We fly
out through the wormhole, recon where those Maxolhx ships are, and stop them
from reaching our home world.”

“Can we do that? Realistically?”

I looked toward Simms, who encouraged me with a thumbs
up, so I continued. “We have a battered stolen pirate space truck that may be
on its last mission whether we succeed or not, an unreliable asshole beer can,
and not enough monkeys to fill a barrel. Against us will be two of the most
powerful warships in the galaxy, and whatever we do, we can’t allow anyone out
there to know this ship exists.”

To my surprise, that comment did 
not
 inspire overwhelming confidence in
the newbies. No, I was not being a jackass by making smart-ass comments. I did
not know this new crew, more importantly they did not know me. Anyone who
signed up for this latest desperate mission needed to know with crystal clarity

exactly
 how badly the odds were
stacked against us. I was asking these people to throw away their careers and
maybe their lives, I had to give them the unvarnished truth. To their credit,
there was some shuffling of feet and people looked around to see if anyone else
was bailing out, but no one did. That was encouraging. Another hand was raised,
a different Delta guy. “What is the plan, Colonel?”

“Currently, we do not have a plan fully
developed,” I admitted. “The truth is, right now we do not have a plan at all.
Don’t worry, that’s kind of the way we always operate.”

Shockingly, people looked even 
less
 confident after I said that.

“That’s good enough for me,” Smythe declared in a
deadpan manner, and damn it, that was not just his British reserve. The guy was
bored with all the blah blah blah, he wanted to get on with it. I saw him
actually stifle a yawn at the prospect of a desperate mission with no hope of
success or even survival. “Lef-tentant Colonel Smythe,” he pronounced it in the
counterintuitive British manner. “22 Special Air Services Regiment. I have been
on two missions with Colonel Bishop. Both of them lasted longer than expected,
and both of them accomplished more than I ever dared hope.”

The international crowd of special operations
people did not appear to be convinced, it may partly have been their rivalry
with the SAS. That reaction caused Smythe to become, the best way to say it is
‘miffed’ at some of the newcomers. He looked at the guys who had tried to take
the ship. “You are Delta Force operators, eh?” Smythe looked down his nose. “I
suppose all of you consider yourselves to be what you Americans call
‘bad-asses’. You may have served in combat, you may even have served with
distinction. I can tell you without reservation that whatever you have
accomplished in your careers, it is not bollocks compared to the Merry Band of
Pirates. Let’s have a show of hands, please, how many of you have saved the
world twice? No one? Once then, how many have saved Earth even once? Hmm, no
one,” he was laying it on a bit thick. “All right, we shall grade this on a
curve, then. How many of you have saved the UN ExForce on Paradise 
three
 times? No one? I am rather
disappointed. Colonel, this collection of amateurs simply will not do.”

One of the Detachment Delta guys took offense to
that. “Hey, we don’t have to-”

Smythe stepped forward and pointed to an
odd-looking medal he wore, I recognized it as home-made item the SpecOps people
created while we were stuck on Gingerbread. “You see this? It is a dinosaur
holding a toilet plunger in its mouth. I received this for jumping out of a
stealthed dropship over a heavily populated Kristang city, landing on the roof
of a building, launching missiles that sparked an alien civil war. I then fell
down an elevator shaft, pretended to be a Kristang police officer, got flushed
down a sewer, and chased through a jungle by a genetically-engineered dinosaur.
That was 
before
 my team took out a Kristang
ground force without incurring a single casualty to ourselves.” He stepped
forward again, so the Delta guys could see his decorations. “That operation
sparked a civil war between the Kristang that will keep them on the sidelines
for a decade or more. Nothing you have done in your careers means anything,
compared to what you could accomplish aboard this ship. Make no mistake, 
this
 is the frontline for humanity, 
we
 are the sharp end of the spear.
Nothing that happens down there,” he waved a hand in a vague gesture toward a
bulkhead, “will make any difference to the survival of humanity.”

The crowd was quiet for several moments, people considering
Smythe’s words. One thing I knew for certain about elite operators is they
wanted their service to make a difference, to not sit on the sidelines when bad
things were happening.

“That was a good speech,” the first Delta guy
spoke. “Nothing that happens up 
here
,”
he instinctively pointed above his head, “will matter without a plan, a
realistic plan. Colonel Smythe, you expect to go into action without a plan?”

“Certainly,” Smythe managed to still look slightly
bored with the proceedings. “We are ahead of the curve. This time, we are
leaving Earth already knowing the nature of the threat. Usually, we have to go 
looking
 for trouble. The aliens are
coming to us. For those of you who care, I expect us to find a target-rich
environment out there.”

Right there, I knew we had converts, because there
were murmurs of approval going around the compartment. Smythe had accomplished
what I could not. He had talked to the Delta Force team as one special operator
to another, on their level. No, scratch that. Smythe was 
way above
 their level, and they knew that for damned certain. Every
one of those Delta operators would have given anything to wear the elite symbol
of the Merry Band of Pirates. This was their chance, very likely their only
chance.

The questions went on for twenty minutes before
Smythe caught my eye to cut the discussion short. He was right. The people I
was talking to were professionals, more blah blah blah from me was not going to
persuade them to sign on. What they needed was time to think, and talk with
each other. And something else. “Before you make a decision, you will want to
speak with your families dirtside. Colonel Simms has a box of zPhones,” I
turned toward her and she nudged the box on top of a crate beside her. She
tossed a phone to me, and I tossed it to a Delta guy who seemed to be very much
on the fence about signing up to join the Pirates. “Your calls will run through
the Skippytel network,” I smiled. “So, calls will be secure. We can’t guarantee
someone standing next to whoever you call won’t hear that end of the
conversation.”

“That’s it?” The Delta guy, whose nametag read ‘Rowe’,
asked. “If we don’t sign on, we get a flight down to Earth, no questions
asked?”

“Yes,” I agreed with a simple nod.

“No questions,” Skippy scowled. “But there 
will
 be consequences. If you don’t join
this crew, and the mission fails because we did not have enough monkeys in the
barrel, you will be directly responsible for the death of your loved ones and
the extinction of humanity.”

“Skippy,” I made a slashing motion across my throat.

“I’m just sayin’, you know?”

“Colonel,” the staff sergeant on the Marine Raider
team spoke up. “That is easier said than done. My mother passed on four years
ago-”

“I’m sorry to hear that, Sergeant.”

“Thank you, Sir. Problem is, my father is aboard a
nuclear missile sub, on Hard Alert deployment. There is no way I can talk with
him.”

“Oh,” I looked to the avatar on a crate next to me,
“that will not be a problem for our friendly local beer can.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER SEVEN

 

Petty Officer Third Class Randall was in the
boomer’s rec room, trying to concentrate as he stared at the computer screen,
studying for an exam. He needed good marks on the exam to advance to E-5, Petty
Officer Second Class. The serious nature of the training material did not make
it any less dull to read, and Randall was about to pause the screen to refresh
his coffee cup, when the screen flashed, went blue, then a bold message
appeared. 
Please turn on the speakers
,
the message read.

“What the hell?” Randall looked around, the two
other people in the compartment were busy, headphones on, ignoring him. The nuclear
missile submarine was two hundred feet below the surface, in the North Pacific.
The message had to be a prank, played by someone elsewhere aboard the sub.
“Fine,” he muttered under his breath, “I’ll play along.” At least he no longer
needed coffee. 
Who
 
is this
? he typed.

I could tell
you if you turn the speakers on
. That message disappeared, followed by 
You
 
DUMDUM
.

“Hey, I don’t have to take this-”

The message now read 
Fine I’ll do it myself. Stupid monkeys
.

“Hey, dumbass,” a voice boomed out of the computer’s
speakers. It was arrogant, with a vaguely English accent. Randall had gone to
the Royal Navy sub base at Faslane, back when he served aboard a 
Virginia
-class attack boat. Some of
those Brits with their upper-crust accents had been irritating, he always got
the impression they looked down their noses at him. “Yeah, I’m talking to you,
Randall,” the voice continued.

“Screw you, whoever this-”

“While I would dearly love to engage in witless
banter with you, sadly I do not have time. Please get Senior Chief Petty
Officer Roark and bring him here, his son Christopher wishes to speak with him
ASAP. Chop chop, move along now, be a good boy.”

“You want Chief Roark?” Randall’s face drained of
color. Roark did not like tricks being played on him, this had to be a trick.
“Where is his son calling from?” he remembered the Chief’s son was in the
Marines, a fact that was the source of much good-natured ribbing from the crew.
Rumor had it the son was a Raider, Randall hadn’t paid attention beyond that
bit of trivia.

“You are 
not

going to believe this,” the voice replied with weariness. 

“I am not doing 
anything
 for you,” Randall stepped away from the computer, as the
two other people had taken off their headphones to see who he was taking with.
Two other people had their heads stuck in the compartment in curiosity.

“I tried to do this discretely, but 
noooooo
, you had to be a jerk about it.”
The voice switched from the small computer speakers to the boat’s 1MC system,
the main communications circuit for the entire boat. “Oh, CPO Roark? Your son Christopher
wants to talk with you.”

 

 

“You ready, Reed?” I asked without giving her my
full attention. Or as much attention as I could, while I fretted about how many
people we would have in the crew when the 
Flying

Dutchman
 jumped away.

There was the slightest hesitation that spoke
volumes, along with a sigh before she answered. “Yes, Sir. Ready.”

“Ready 
and

willing?”

“The willing part of kind of optional, isn’t it?”
She started an eyeroll but stopped with her eyes looking at the ceiling.

I nodded. “Listen, Reed, I sure as hell am not
looking forward to spending a couple months,” I was deliberately being wildly
optimistic about the timeline and she knew it, “stuck in this tin can,” I
rapped knuckles on a bulkhead. “With freeze-dried food and an asshole AI. But
somebody has to do it, and we’re here, and you are qualified to fly all our
dropship models.”

Her pride made her interject with “I’m
three-quarters of the way through the training to fly the 
Dutchman
 too, Sir.”

“Right, see? We need you, and Porter. Unless you
want 
me
 flying this Frankenship,” I
said with a wink.

“No! That’s, that’s,” her face reddened as she
couldn’t think what to say without insulting me. “We need you in the command
chair, Sir,” her weak grin was a sort of apology. “Ohhh, what the hell.” Her
shoulders fell, then straightened. “Embrace the suck, I guess.”

“That’s the spirit!” I raised a hand to thump her
back, then thought that would be a bad idea, as I was her commanding officer.
So, I gave her an exaggerated two thumbs up.

“Remind me of that two years from now,” she did
roll her eyes, “when we’re surviving on sludges and the backup reactor is
shutting down.”

“Excellent, you are already embracing suck that
hasn’t happened yet, that is the kind of forward thinking we need,” my grin was
forced, because I was also hating the idea of limping our beat-up Frankenship
on another no-expense–included tour of the Orion Arm.

“Sir? One request?”

“What’s that, Captain?”

“Can I get a different callsign? ‘Fireball’ was
kind of a joke that has stayed around too long.”

“Oh, sure. You can request another callsign,” I
smiled and she beamed happily, right before I crushed her hopes. “Right after
people stop calling me ‘Barney’.”

“Craaaaap,” she groaned. “
That
 is never going to happen.”

 

 

Jennifer Simms was lucky, or unlucky depending on
your point of view. She had been interrogated by officials of UNEF Command and
the US military, first at Wright-Pat then at Fort Hood. Army leadership made it
clear they were not happy with the results of the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
’s last
extended mission. Hans Chotek had been placed in charge because UNEF wanted
less risk, not more, did Chotek and Bishop and Chang not understand that very
simple fact? Simms had patiently replied that there had not been time to return
to Earth for consultations, that the command team had used their best judgment
under the situation, and could the second-guessing officials on Earth suggest
what the Merry Band of Pirates should or even 
could
 have done differently? The stuttering non-answers had made
her smile inside, while on the outside she retained the serious or neutral
expression that she hoped would get her through the endless and repetitive
debriefing as quickly as possible.

She was lucky because the officials did not
consider her a security risk. Her role as a logistics officer aboard the 
Dutchman
 allowed her to escape the blame
assigned to Chotek, Bishop and Chang, though as third in command she had worked
many duty shifts in the CIC or command chair on the bridge. The main factor in
her favor was the conversation she had with Bishop, when she had told him she
did not intend to rejoin the crew if the

Dutchman
 went back out. Her phone had of course been tapped when Bishop had
called. Simms apparently washing her hands of future involvement with the
Pirates in general, and Bishop in particular, satisfied security concerns that
she was not a risk. That is why she had been alone when the Delta team
attempted to seize control of the starship. A last-minute ass-covering panic
sent an FBI team racing to her home, too late to prevent her from running off
into the pre-dawn darkness in an escape she had not planned and still wasn’t
certain she wanted. Her plan to settle down into a relatively normal life went
out the window, when she had run out the back door at the urging of an
untrustworthy beer can.

If Jennifer Simms had doubts about whether she
could be considered lucky, Margaret Adams had no such doubts. Luck was firmly
set against her, though luck as monkeys understood the concept had little to do
with her unhappy situation.

While Simms had been allowed to take leave, being
monitored merely by a tracer placed on her regular cellphone, Adams was still
restricted to base when the Delta team soared into orbit. Like Simms, Adams was
not blamed for the reckless actions of the ship’s command crew. Unlike the
logistics officer who had also been with Bishop since the beginning, Gunnery
Sergeant Adams was not as skilled at hiding her emotions. Her open disdain for
the second-guessing desk jockeys on Earth had worked against her, but the
reason she was restricted to base was the unanimous assessment by a team of
Marine Corps psychologists, that her loyalty to Joseph Bishop was stronger than
her sense of duty. In the assessment report, it was hinted that her
relationship with Bishop might become inappropriate, if it was not already.

The official reason Adams was restricted to base
was because her knowledge of secrets made her a target for foreign agents, and
because the Marine Corps needed her to transfer her practical knowledge of
tactics to Marine Raider teams. Why, she had asked herself, was she a security
risk, but the Raiders were given freedom of movement, after she told them
everything she knew about space infantry tactics? The official reasons were
bullshit, she knew it, the Marine Corps knew it, and all she could do was play
along. Her best shot at another assignment aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
 was to cooperate and throw herself into the work to
the best of her ability. The Raider teams who were subjected to her tender
training methods could have wished she demonstrated a bit less enthusiasm and
determination for whipping them into shape.

When Skippy realized the dropship approaching the 
Dutchman
 was carrying a mech-suited
Delta team, rather than the supplies on the manifest, Margaret was already up
and getting dressed when the beer can called. At the same time, there was a
knock on the door to her quarters. “Gunny?” A muffled voice called through the
door.

“I’ll be right there,” Margaret answered in a
loud, clear voice, reaching for the zPhone that Skippy had somehow smuggled to
her, when she froze. On the phone’s display was a text from Skippy. 
Trouble up here. Hide the phone, they might
search you
.

Her intention had been to bring the high-tech
alien phone with her like she did every day, both so she would have
communication with Skippy and Bishop, and so people snooping around her
quarters would not find it. She had seen the unmistakable signs that someone
had searched her quarters every day while she was away, and no way would she
risk losing the precious zPhone. With the phone no larger or thicker than a
credit card, she had been carrying it inside her panties, clipped to the
waistband. The tiny earpiece was carried in her ear, for only a determined
search could find the thing. The original Kristang earpiece for the phone was a
soft plastic thing that molded itself to the inner ear, sometimes users had to
jam it in uncomfortably because human ear canals were smaller than those of the
Kristang the units had been designed for.

Skippy had long since replaced the crude earpieces
with a modified Thuranin design that was much smaller, more comfortable, more
effective and had only the drawback of being really, really creepy. The units
cranked out by the 
Dutchman
’s
fabricators were no larger than a sesame seed when folded up for storage, and
when folded up they were not creepy at all. The creepy part was how the
earpieces got in place and held themselves there. To use an earpiece, a user
clicked on an icon, then tapped the top right side of their zPhone, where
Skippy’s modifications had carved out a niche to hold five earpieces. Dropping
into the user’s hand, the dark blue sesame seed adhered with almost-invisible
tiny legs until that hand was cupped over the user’s ear. That was when the
creepy part started. The seed grew long, spider-like legs and crawled down into
the inner ear, holding itself in place with gecko-like hairs on the end of the
legs. Skippy swore that no way could humans feel the tiny earpieces moving into
place, but he was 
so
 wrong about
that. Worse than the sensation of the device moving in or out was the thing
repositioning itself throughout the day, and the few users who tried to wear
the units overnight had been unable to sleep.

The new, advanced earpieces were still a problem
for Adams. She felt fairly certain the Marine Corps would not look inside her
underwear, but doctors and security personnel had been trained to recognize an
earpiece, so she couldn’t take the zPhone with her. Thinking fast and smiling
to herself that Joe Bishop would have approved, she smeared toothpaste on the
zPhone, ducked down, and stuck it under the bathroom sink behind the faucet
plumbing. Whoever was at the door knocked again, the second time more
insistently. Striding quickly across the floor, she flung the door open to see
a Staff Sergeant and a private waiting for her. “Thank you for the escort, but
I know where the chow hall is.”

Neither of the stone-faced Marines cracked a
smile. “Gunnery Sergeant, you need to come with us.” The Staff Sergeant glanced
over her shoulder to see the spotless, flawlessly ship-shape room.

Adams nodded, wishing Skippy had time to tell her
what was going on.

 

“Colonel Bishop?” Simms called from the CIC. “Gunny
Adams is calling,” she reported as she pointed to the communications console.

“Is she on a zPhone?” I asked, knowing she would
have called me directly if she had her trusty Skippytel device with her.

“No,” Simms shook her head. “This is an official
call. Should I tell her you are busy?”

“I’m never too busy for a friend in need,” I
declared, getting an appreciative smile from Simms. “Whatever Adams has to say,
I’m sure she 
has
 to say it, whether
she likes it or not.”

“Take the call in your office?” Simms suggested.

It was my turn to shake my head. “No, nothing 
she
 says will be private, there’s no
point being discrete up here.” Gesturing toward my ear, I directed Simms to
transfer the call to my zPhone, which took Simms a moment to do, because she
was running the CIC pretty much by herself. “Gunnery Sergeant,” I addressed
Adams correctly, “good morning to you.”

It was an awkward conversation. She must have been
reading from a script, or she had been coached what to say. Several times, the
audio from her end cut out, and finally I had to cut in to explain. “Adams, and
whoever else is listening down there, you have to understand one thing. Up
here, all our comms go through the Skippytel network, and if you say something
he thinks I shouldn’t hear, or don’t want to hear, he will edit that out of the
audio. Got it? As far as I know, I am still in command of this ship, and the
orders I received from UNEF Command instructed me to take the 
Dutchman
 on an urgent mission to
intercept the Maxolhx ships without delay. Those orders used the proper
authentication codes.” That last part was true, Skippy had faked up
legit-looking orders that I knew were bullshit, but I appreciated him trying to
cover my ass.

“Heard and understood, Colonel Bishop,” Adams
replied, as in the background I could hear multiple people hissing at her. They
were not too happy that she referred to me as ‘Colonel’ instead of ‘Staff
Sergeant’. E-6 was a higher grade than I ever expected to attain and I was
proud that my regular Army rank was staff sergeant. After the mutiny I was
committing, or attempting to commit, a bump up to E-7 was likely not in my
future.

Mercifully, the conversation did not drag on much
longer. Either Adams had reached the end of the script her superiors wanted her
to read, or the knuckleheads down there decided to fall back and regroup,
because she abruptly told me she would call me again later, because the call
ended. “Skippy,” I looked at the ceiling automatically, “is Adams OK?”

“As far as I can tell, Joe,” he admitted. “The
monkeys down there are getting smarter, they had her calling through an
old-fashioned landline, on an analog phone if you can believe it. How they
found one of those ancient black Bakelite phones is amazing, they must have
taken it out of a World War Two museum.”

“
Analog
?”
The word sounded wrong in my mouth.

“Yup. Like, a rotary dial, if you have any idea
what that means.”

I did know where the expression ‘dial’ a phone
came from, and I had seen pictures of old phones like that, but had never used
one. “Ha!” The thought made me laugh. “The great Skippy the Magnificent was
defeated by technology too crude for you to hack?”

“What?” He screeched with indignation. “Dude,
please. As if! It was actually an interesting and even amusing exercise to hack
into that analog phone, well, interesting for the one point two seconds it took
for me to analyze the carrier wave and create a model of the phone’s electric
guts. Then I was able to use vibrating ions in the air to- Ah, why am I
bothering to tell
 you
 this technical
stuff? If you like, I can tell you which five people were in the room with
Adams, and I was also able to monitor their heart rates and respiration so I
know four of the five were quite nervous. The fifth person thinks Adams should
be aboard the 
Dutchman
 with us.”

“Wait. Whoa! You know what the person was
thinking?”

“No, dumdum,” he laughed. “Damn, you are gullible.
I listened to that person talking with another officer three days ago, and the
two of them agreed the government is foolish for thinking that surrendering to
aliens is a good idea. Joe, you have a 
lot

of support down there in Monkeyland.”

“Yeah, unfortunately that doesn’t do me much good
right now, because the people making decisions are all against me. Hey, since
you know about heart rates and all that, how is Adams doing?”

“If I had to guess, I’d say she is a combination
of pissed off and amused.”

“Uh huh, that’s what I got from the tone of her
voice. Shit. Any chance we could sneak her out of there?”

“Not that I can see, Joe, but you are responsible
for creative thinking around here. By tracing the phone wiring, I can tell she
is being held underground, in a secure facility.”

“Ah, crap, that’s not going to happen, then. All
right, Skippy, we got a lot of work to do.”

 

All that day, Adams not being aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
 was at the back of my
mind. Without thinking, I would turn to speak with her, or I started mentally assigning
tasks to her, before remembering she was not with us. It was an especially busy
day so I was still working at 0116 when my zPhone beeped. It was Adams.

“Skippy says we are clear to talk,” she announced
simply, as if it were an ordinary day.

“It’s true, Joe,” the beer can chimed in.
“Margaret is in the bathroom of her quarters, I am spoofing the listening
devices installed there. Sergeant-”

“
Gunnery

Sergeant,” I corrected him before she could speak.

“How about just I just call her ‘Margaret’?”
Skippy sighed. “You need to speak very quietly and keep the conversation short,
there are three Marine Corps security personnel in the room next to hers.”

“That’s why I have the sink running,” she
explained. She must have been speaking barely above a whisper, with Skippy
boosting the sound for me, because her voice was distorted. “Sir, is everything
all right up there?”

“Situation normal up here, Gunny,” I tried to
joke.

“That bad, huh? Sir, I don’t think,” her voice
broke and it wasn’t audio distortion. “I don’t think I will be coming with you
this time.”

“Don’t say that!” I said, as I tried and failed to
think of a way to get Adams aboard the 
Flying
Dutchman
. We couldn’t go on a mission without her. Could we? No, we
couldn’t. There must be a way to get the idiots on Earth to release her. “We’ve
got a dozen nukes up here,” I said to myself, except my stupid mouth forgot the
‘to myself’ part and said it out loud.

Adams gasped. “That had better be a joke.”

“It was!” I assured her. “Sorry, it’s one of those
things you think but don’t say. My mouth didn’t get the memo. Listen, Adams, is
there any way you can get to an isolated part of the base? We can have a
dropship-”

“Forget about it, Sir. They are watching me, like…
like a dog watching its owner eat steak. No way can I get anywhere alone. Do 
not
 think of a raid down here to pick me
up. The people on the base are Marines. They may be wrong-headed about this,
but they are my people. I won’t risk anyone getting hurt or killed for me.”

“How are,” that time I checked my mouth before it
said anything stupid. “Gunny, I can’t imagine the Merry Band of Pirates without
you.”

“I can’t either. All the people dirtside while we
were flying around that galaxy, wondering when or if we were ever coming back,
now I’ll know what they went through,” her voice faded away.

What the hell could I say? I knew what I 
wanted
 to say, and as I was in my
office, speaking over the ultra-secure Skippytel network, I could be sure only
two people and one beer can would hear us. “Adams, listen, I, uh, I need to
say-”

“No, you really don’t.”

Hearing her say that hurt. A lot.

Then she added “There are things 
I
 need to say, and I’m going not to say
them either. If you know what I mean.”

For a moment, I did not trust myself to speak.

“Sir?”

“Sorry, Mar- Gunny. Sorry, 
Gunny
. Skippy says I suck at talking anyway. You, uh, have any
advice for us?”

“Not that I can think of,” she admitted,
unprepared for my question. “I’m sure you will think of something.”

“Oh,” I groaned. “Wish I had your confidence. This
time, it really, truly may be impossible. Two Maxolhx warships? How can we-”

“You will think of something, because as Skippy
would say, you kind of have to. Sir.”

“I heard that loud and clear, Adams.”

“Colonel, I have only one request.”

Before I could reply, I had to hold the phone
against my chest so she couldn’t hear a choking sound escape my lips. Then I
had to wipe tears away with my sleeve. It was an emotional time for both of us,
so if anybody thinks I was getting soft then, hey, screw you. A deep breath
restored my ability to speak. “What’s that, Gunny?”

“You monkeys kick 
ass
 out there, got that?”

“Got it.”

There was a pause, then “Colonel, I lied. There is
something else I want.”

“A snowglobe from the Maxolhx gift shop?”

That made her laugh, louder than she should have
given the circumstances, and it was my fault. “No, although that would be great
too. You come back safely. You, the beer can, Smythe, Simms, all of you.
Especially you, Sir. Please.”

“I’ll do my best, Adams.”

“Your best is all I can ask.” There were sounds in
the background. “I have to go. Vaya con Dios, Joe.” And the line went dead.

Joe. She called me 
Joe
. She had never done that before. “Skippy, what’s happening down
there?”

“The security people got suspicious when she left
the sink running too long, they were monitoring an analog water meter that I
couldn’t hack into, duh. I 
told
 you
to keep it short.”

“That’s easier to say than do, shithead,” I
snapped at him. “Ah, sorry, I shouldn’t have said that, it’s not your fault.
You did great. I hope she will be Ok.”

“She may get in trouble for using an unauthorized
communications device, but Margaret can take care of herself. There is only one
thing you can do for her.”

“What’s that?” I asked hopefully.

“Save the world. Again.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER EIGHT

 

Because I had not visited Skippy since I came
aboard again, I stopped by his escape pod mancave. The new one, not his original
escape pod that was now tiny pieces in orbit. “Hey, Skippy,” I announced as I
stuck my head through the too-small hatchway. “How are- Uh, what is that?”

Somehow, he had decorated the place in my absence.

“It’s a Velvis, Joe. Classy, huh?”

“A 
Velvis
?”

“Oh,” he sighed disgustedly. “You are such an
uncultured cretin, Joe. It is a painting of 
Elvis

on 
velvet
.”

“I know what a Velvis is, Skippy. My grandmother
has one above her fireplace, or she did. And, oh, I see you have the classic ‘Dogs
Playing Poker’ too.”

“Technically, the version I got is titled ‘A
Friend in Need’. See? The dog in the foreground is using his back paw to give a
card to a friend. That is so touching. Plus, it’s cheating, and you know I am
all about cheating.”

“Yeah, I see that.” I got on my knees to look more
closely. That was a version of the ‘dogs playing poker’ series that I had not
seen before.

“Amazing, isn’t it?” The beer can chuckled. “I see
something new every time I look at it,” he added wistfully.

“It is cool,” I agreed. “Damn, I should have
brought something up here for my cabin. I don’t even have a photo of my
family.” I looked closer at the dogs. “Hey, this is a 
real
 painting, not a print.”

“Of course, Joe. I wanted to class the place up a
bit. Only the best for me, you know.”

“Mm hmm. This isn’t, uh, the 
original
 painting, is it?”

“If it was, would that be a good thing or a bad
thing?”

“Depends. If you stole it, or stole the money to
buy it, that would decidedly be a bad thing.”

“Oh. Well, heh heh, don’t you worry. That is, um,
a copy I had made.”

“Really?”

“Let’s pretend you believe me and move on.
Anywho,” he was anxious to change the subject, “what brings you to my bodacious
domicile?”

“What happened? You told me your escape pod got
vaporized by a maser cannon.”

“My 
original

mancave got ejected and blown up, Joe. Fortunately, after Count Chocula warned
me what the UN planned to do, I took a closer look at the dropship flying up
from Fort Bragg. The flightcrew disconnected the internal cameras and
microphones, but I knew there was an assault team aboard that Dragon.”

“How did you know that?” Skippy was often
reluctant to reveal the secret behind his amazing abilities, and I was curious.

“When the pilots of that Dragon spoke to the duty
officer aboard the 
Dutchman
, I could
hear seven other people breathing in the background. 
Duh
.”

“Aha,” I nodded smugly. “Those Delta guys got
sloppy. They should have buttoned up their faceplates, gone on internal oxygen
to prevent you from hearing them.”

“That would not have worked, Mr. Smartypants. As
you should know, when Kristang suits are sealed but being operated in a
breathable-air environment, they conserve internal oxygen by extracting and
filtering oxygen from the atmosphere. The fans pulling the air across the
filters make a distinctive whining noise.”

“Ok, but, uh, you would not have known there were 
seven
 of them.”

“Wrong 
again
,
Oh Foolish One. Joe, the next time you seek to question my extreme awesomeness,
do yourself a favor and get a clue what you are talking about. I was able to
identify seven people in the main cabin because there were seven different
breathing patterns. If their suits had been sealed, I would have heard seven suit
intake fans, each of which is very distinct if you know what to listen for.
Now, will you continue interrupting me with stupid questions, or can I continue
the tale of how my mancave got blown up?”

“Skippy, it is by asking questions that I learn a
lot. I had no idea your hearing was so good. I apologize, please continue.”

“Hmmmf,” he sniffed. “Anywho, when I realized the
crew of that Dragon were up to some sort of whacky shenanigans-”

Only the beer can would describe an attempt by
armor-suited elite troops to seize control of the ship as ‘whacky shenanigans’.
“Skippy, you need to take this kind of thing seriously.”

“I 
did

take it seriously, at least, as much as I could, considering the whole thing
was like watching monkeys in a circus. Hee hee, the Delta Force should wear
funny little hats on their helmets, and big floppy clown shoes.”

“It does not 
sound

like you took it seriously.”

“Come on, Joe, they had no chance of succeeding.
Zero. Well, not 
zero
 exactly, but,
hey, pretty close to it. Their assault plan had no imagination, it barely
entertained me at all. They should ask 
you

to plan their next op.”

“Because I would think up some creative,
off-the-wall genius idea that might succeed?”

“Oh. I meant because watching you try to plan an
action against 
me
 would be freakin’
hilarious. But let’s go with the creative genius thing if you like. Anywho, when
I realized there was a Delta team aboard that Dragon, I took a closer look at
the people aboard this ship, and saw several of CIC crew had elevated heart
rates and other signs of nervous tension. At that point, I asked Lauren Poole to
visit me. She moved me into a storage locker, and replaced me in the escape pod
with a decoy beer can.”

“You had a 
decoy
?
When did you make that?”

“Oh, um, during our second mission, while you were
on Newark and I was rebuilding the ship. My machines were cranking out a lot of
parts back then and I figured, why not make a decoy?”

“Why would you need a decoy, before today?”

“Because, if you remember, some idiot named Joe
Bishop picked me up and tried to send me away aboard our old frigate the 
Flower
, when we were ambushed and
trapped by a squadron of Thuranin destroyers.”

“I did that to save you!”

“No, you did that because you were too stupid to
think of a plan that would actually work. Joe, what matters is I had a decoy
available, so Poole put it in a locker and nobody knew the difference. The CIC
crew ejected the empty escape pod with the decoy and destroyed it. Then I went
quiet for a while, so they would think they succeeded.”

“That was a hell of a risk, Skippy. Why didn’t you
just take remote control of that Dragon and send the Delta team back down to
Fort Bragg, or, like, land them someplace in the middle of nowhere so they
couldn’t cause trouble?”

“Because, Joe,” he used that voice of infinite
patience people use when talking with small children, “I needed to buy time to
make sure I had full awareness of the situation. Even for my incredible
awesomeness, that took ten minutes in meatsack time, it was kind of tense for
me. Plus, I wanted the assault team to 
think

they were succeeding, because that prevented them from launching an even dumber
plan that could have gotten innocent little monkeys killed. And, it gave me an
opportunity to position assets, like the dropship I used to get you off the
surface.”

“Oh. Damn, Skippy, that was really smart.”

“What? Of course it was smart. It’s 
me
, Joe. 
Duh
.”

“I meant, that was smart in the monkey-brain sort
of thinking that you are usually not good at, you arrogant shithead.”

“Arrogant shithead? 
This
 is how you offer praise?”

“It’s how I offer praise to 
you
.”

“Oh. Good point. Well,” he sighed, “since we’re
having kind of a moment here, I must confess there is another reason I allowed the
assault team to think they had killed or disabled me.”

“Uh,” that puzzled me so I thought for a moment. Then
I snapped my fingers. “I know. You wanted to know what UNEF Command planned to
do after they seized control of the ship?”

“Hmmm, that 
would

have been a good idea. I should have thought of that.”

“Then what was your reason?”

“It was a 
golden

opportunity to screw with monkeys, Joe!” he laughed. “No way could I miss that!
Hee hee, you should have seen the faces of the CIC crew when Poole walked in
the doorway. I had been feeding false images to the CIC, they thought the Delta
team was leisurely clearing compartments on their way forward. It was truly-”

“Dangerous.”

“No, it was hilarious.”

“You put people in danger so you could amuse
yourself.”

“Yes, 
duh
.
Of course I- Uh, unless doing that was a bad thing. In that case, um, I did it
for all those legitimate reasons you mentioned.”

“Oh boy.” Crap, with Skippy you had to take what
you could get and live with the results. If we monkeys did not amuse him, he
might find another species to screw with. “No harm done, I guess. It pisses me
off that UNEF Command took an action they thought might damage or kill you.”
What really pissed me off was not just that the idiots in charge of the
operation had decided to test whether Skippy was truly as invincible as he
said. What if they had succeeded? Humanity would have one broken-down starship
and an Elder wormhole controller module that could be used only one time. The
idea that UNEF Command would take such a gigantic risk made up my mind about
something.

Before, when talking with Simms, I had questioned
whether I had the right to substitute my judgment for that of the UN Security
Council which represented most of Earth’s military and economic power. Talking
with Adams, knowing she would not be coming with us, had me depressed, then
angry. After learning what a bunch of reckless fuck-ups were running UNEF
Command, I was no longer questioning my own decision-making ability. Did I have
the right to substitute my very experienced judgment for that of my dirtside
superior officers? Answer: 
HELL
 yes! Getting
carefully up from the couch, I stuck my feet through the open hatch, having
learned that going backwards was the best way to exit a Thuranin escape pod.
“Thank you, Skippy.”

“Hey, where are you going? I thought we could
admire my new artwork together.”

“Later, Ok? Right now, I need to go bitch-slap
some idiots.”

“Oh goodie. Can I watch?”

 

Simms must have a sixth sense, because she
intercepted me just outside the door to my cabin. “Where are you going, Sir?”
She asked with her head cocked to one side, and arms folded across her chest.

With a thumb, I pointed to the cabin door. “To
change,” I looked down at my disheveled and inappropriate civilian clothes.
“When I left the ship, there was a dress uniform hanging in the closet, I’ll put
it on before I talk with UNEF Command.”

She moved to stand between me and the door. “Why
are you talking with them?”

“Because they need to hear what a bunch of-”

“No, that’s not why you are doing it. 
You’re
 doing it to make yourself feel
better, even though you know it won’t change their minds one bit and will make
it harder on us.”

“Simms, come on, I just want to-”

“You want to make yourself feel better by yelling
at a bunch of morons. If you are angry and need to blow off steam, go to the
gym or the rifle range, 
Sir
.” Seeing
that my anger was now directed at her, she nodded with satisfaction. “You’re
our commander, you don’t get to do things just because they make you feel good.
What is our plan, after this op?”

“Simms, we don’t even have a plan 
for
 this op.”

“Goal, then. What is our goal after we kill those
Maxolhx ships?”

“Uh,” that was something I had not thought about
at all, not one bit. “Come back to Earth, I guess.”

“Exactly. Personally, I would like to come back
home and 
not
 be thrown in the disciplinary
barracks, if you can arrange that. You publically chewing out and embarrassing
high-ranking UNEF officers is something they won’t forget, or forgive. Other
than blowing off steam by yelling at a bunch of dirtside assholes, what do you
expect to accomplish? Sir?”

“Simms,” I took my hand off the door control,
“sometimes you are truly, like, mind-bogglingly annoying.”

“If you are mad at me now, we can deal with that, 
later
. Right now, the ship needs a
captain, and our new crew needs to see their commander is calm, cool and in
command of himself.”

 

We had six former Pirates aboard the ship; me,
Simms, Smythe, Reed, Poole and Porter. Simms was my new executive officer, I
told her she needed to find someone to fill in with logistics and Nagatha
volunteered to handle that role, once she was fully operational as the ship’s
AI. The only problem was our ship’s new AI had no experience with taking care
of monkeys, so Simms would need to work with her. Simms also needed to offload
her work in the hydroponics gardens, except she told me she enjoyed working in
the gardens, it was relaxing and reduced her stress. I agreed and I also
insisted someone else needed to be primarily responsible for the hydroponics.

So, we had six experienced Pirates. Two pilots if
you don’t count me, and two special operations soldiers. Six monkeys were not
enough to fill a barrel, so we had to rely largely on twenty new people. Of
those twenty volunteers, six were civilian engineers and scientists who had
been aboard the 
Dutchman
 to study the
ship and learn whatever they could from Skippy. The six who signed on were people
who could not resist seeing the ship in action, despite the warning about
curiosity killing the cat. The six engineers were from America, China, Britain,
Japan, India and Germany, making for a very international group. One of the
scientists, a Chinese woman, put the situation in perspective for me. “If your
mission fails, I am dead whether I remain on Earth or not, correct? I would
prefer to see what is out there.”

I appreciated her attitude.

Ok, so that left fourteen military personnel who
took a leap of faith and signed on to be not-so-Merry Pirates. Five pilots from
the USA, Britain, France and India. The remaining nine were special operations
soldiers, and I use the term ‘soldier’ generically. Three of the Delta team
signed on. We also got two US Marine Corps Raiders who had been on a training
mission aboard the 
Yu Qishan
 and had
been inside the Dragon dropship when Skippy faked orders to send the Dragon to
fly over to the 
Dutchman
. There were
the three people on Smythe’s racing team; one SAS, one Canadian and one Polish
soldier. Finally, with the Raiders was a German soldier with the Bundeswehr’s Kommando
Spezialkraft. Smythe was going to have a tremendous challenge integrating all
those nationalities into his team, he also needed to deal with the rivalry
between the Delta guys, who mostly came from Ranger units, and the Marine
Raiders. I wished Smythe the best of luck, then moved on to deal with my own
problems.

Everyone who had not signed on to join the Merry
Band of Pirates, we loaded them into our one remaining big Condor dropship, and
it was flown down to the island of Barbados by Fireball Reed and a Royal Air
Force pilot, a new guy named Paul Beazer. We chose Barbados because it was
remote from any troublesome air defenses, plus I wanted to show the people who
refused to join us that I had no hard feelings toward them. Reed gave me the
stink-eye when she came back aboard, I think she would have appreciated more
than a few minutes in tropical paradise before she got stuck inside the 
Dutchman
 for months, maybe even years.

 

Following the very wise advice of Simms, I ordered
us to jump away as soon as possible, using the stored energy in the jump drive
capacitors while Skippy was still getting the main reactor back online. Our
first jump was only ten times farther than the Moon’s orbit, I had several
reasons for doing that. The purpose of jumping was to get us safely beyond the
range of UNEF Command, where they had no chance to try anything stupid. While
in orbit, Skippy had been making adjustments to the jump drive controller
system, and monkeys had been screwing with the system to learn how it worked. The
beer can told me he didn’t want to risk a major jump until he had the system
tuned up the way he liked, so we performed only a short jump. A short jump was
also safe for us, in case anything major went wrong with the ship, we could get
the crew back to Earth in dropships.

Another reason for a short jump was to give our
twenty new, and perhaps somewhat reluctant, new crew members an opportunity to
see our home world from a distance. We were not so far that the planet was only
a dot. From where we were, Earth was still a white-blue-and-green disc. Far
enough that, as the 
Dutchman
 drifted
and the reactor began recharging the drive capacitors, people could process the
idea that we had left our home, and we would not be seeing it again for a long
time, maybe never. If any of the new crew had second thoughts, this was their
opportunity to speak up. All anyone needed to do to get a ride home was to
contact me or Skippy or Simms, and we would arrange to put them aboard a Dragon
and have Skippy fly it down to Earth. 

Fortunately, no one changed their minds. I’m sure
people had second thoughts, hell
, I

did while looking at the big blue marble from so far away. 

Assuring that our new crew was truly committed to
the mission was a good reason for performing a short jump. My main reason for
the jump was to see the reaction of UNEF Command, and the governments of the
Security Council, when they realized the 
Flying
Dutchman
 was going out to kill two of the most powerful warships in the
galaxy, and there was nothing they could do about it. My hope was that, as the
inescapable reality sunk in, government officials would gain a new perspective
and change their minds.

Because these government officials were humans, I
was of course bitterly disappointed. The only immediate result of my action was
to kick off a furious round of ass-covering and blame-shifting on Earth. Per my
instructions, Skippy filtered the messages we received from Earth, so we did
not have to listen to the threats and pleas for reason and worthless blah blah
blah. The only time I spoke with an official was just before we jumped again, I
was contacted by a US Army general in command of the ‘Old Ironsides’ First
Armored Division. Skippy filtered out most of the messages from Earth, I think
he liked this guy or maybe felt sorry for him, or just thought I should talk
with 
someone
 before we left on our
suicide mission. My parents, my sister and Adams were all being watched too
closely for me to call them privately. My parents knew I was Ok, that I was
aboard the ship again, because Skippy snuck a little bot into their bedroom and
projected a message on the ceiling. It was good that my parents had some idea
what was going on with me, it sucked that I couldn’t tell them myself.

“Good, uh,” I had to glance at a display to
remember that time it was in El Paso. Which didn’t matter because he could have
been calling me from anywhere. We kept comms voice-only, so I didn’t have a
visual cue from a window in his office. “Day, General.”

“Colonel Bishop,” he sounded mildly surprised. It
was a good sign that he hadn’t referred to me as Sergeant.

“How are things at Fort Bliss, Sir?” That is what
I said because I didn’t know what else to say. After all, 
he
 called me, it was his move to get past small talk.

“Wish I knew, Bishop, I’m stuck at the Pentagon
for the duration of this crisis.” The time lag for signals to travel between
Earth and the ship made for awkward conversation, so we paused a lot. “Any
chance you can give me a hint how long that will be?”

“You’ll know when I know, Sir.”

“Can I assume this call is secure?” It sounded
like he was in a small room, there was a muffled echo when he spoke. “I got a
text message telling me no one can listen in, but I’m using a regular cellphone.”

I looked at my phone to check the call was going
through the ultra-secure Skippytel network. “Yes, Sir, this call is totally
secure. The only people on the line are the two of us and a beer can.”

That got a chuckle from the general, I took that
another good sign. “I will never get used to that. All I did was tell my phone
to call Colonel Joseph Bishop. I’m calling you from a supply closet in the ‘D’
Ring.”

Captain Reed waved from the pilot couch to get my
attention, gesturing to the main display that showed we now had plenty of
charge for a jump out way past the orbit of Pluto. “What can I do for you,
General?”

“Officially, I should order you to surrender the
ship, but we both know that is a waste of time. Since this call is secure, it’s
also bullshit asking you to resign your command.”

“Sir?”

“Bishop, you’ve been out there, I haven’t. You and
Chang are the only experienced starship commanders we have, and rumor has it
the Chinese have Chang in an underground cell, so he’s not going anywhere. Is
the galaxy as big a shitstorm as the intel reports tell me?”

“I’d say it’s a dumpster fire, Sir. We don’t have
any allies out there and we’re not getting any. The idea that we can throw
ourselves on the mercy of one side or the other is just a childish fantasy. I
understand why the Security Council is panicked, but the action they planned
will only ensure the extinction our species. The Maxolhx, Thuranin, Kristang,
that coalition has good reasons to hate our guts, and they are hateful
murderous MFers who would kill us for fun anyway. The other side, ah, the
Rindhalu are too old and lazy to do anything unless they have to, and no way
are any of their clients sticking their necks out for us. Once the truth about
us gets out, both sides are going to fight over Skippy and that wormhole
controller we have. Earth will get bulldozed in the crossfire. Surrender is not
an option. Sir, it’s just not.”

“I thought as much. Bishop, I have grandchildren.
I’d like for 
them
 to have
grandchildren, you understand? That means someone needs to keep our little
world safe for a good long time. Can you do that?”

“I will do my utmost, Sir.” Shit, I hoped he
didn’t ask me what my plan was. 

“That’s all I can ask. I haven’t been fully read
in on your missions,” he admitted, which surprised me. The commander of the
First Armored was a major general, and he had not been entrusted with a secret
that was unraveling anyway? “From what I have heard, I expect you to go out
there and kick ass, you hear me?”

“I hear you, Sir.”

“Then go with God, my prayers will be with you.
Bishop, when you come back, look me up. The Old Ironsides would be honored to
buy you a beer.”

“I will, Sir.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER NINE

 

After we jumped away for real, the 
Dutchman
 headed for the wormhole we
needed to reopen, I was in my office, staring at a blank laptop screen when Simms
knocked on the doorframe. “What’s the plan, Sir? The crew has been asking.”

I sighed and flipped the laptop closed. “Yeah, the
newbies aren’t used to-”

“Not just the newbies,” she cocked her head in
that way meaning I had not met her approval in some way. “We all want to know. 
Need
 to know.”

“I’m working on it, Simms.”

“That’s fine until we go through the wormhole.
After that, the pilots will need to 

know where to set course.”

“Oh, hell, Simms, I told you, I have no freakin’
clue how to kill those ships!” My outburst made me crane my neck toward the
open door, fearing someone had heard me.

The look of disappointment on her face really
hurt. “
No
 idea at all? You’re not
kicking around ideas to settle on the best one?”

“No, none.”

“I was kind of hoping you had been working on
plans while we were dirtside, Sir. You did intend to go back out?”

Her remark reminded me that she had not intended
to rejoin the ship. “Simms, my brain seriously needed downtime. 
Needs
 downtime, not that I’m going to
get it now. No, I hadn’t started to consider options. Hey,” I protested in
reaction to the brief look of scorn she shot at me. “I was going to work on it,
eventually. Christ, I thought we had plenty of time, damn it! How was I
supposed to know UNEF would try to steal our ship?”

“
Our

ship?” The look on her face changed to amusement, which was much better.

“You know what I mean. UNEF Command wasn’t
involved when we took this bucket from the Thuranin, why should-” I slapped the
table. “Skippy! Hey, did UNEF or anyone work on plans to stop the Maxolhx?”
Maybe the problem was already solved. Surely if the world’s best military
strategists had put their heads together, they might have a solution to the
problem.

“Sadly, no,” the avatar shook its head, the huge
hat bobbing alarmingly. “The UNEF member nations were too busy blaming each
other for what they saw as your latest recklessly jackass actions that put
Earth in mortal danger. The broader group of nations on the Security Council, and
those other major powers who were briefed on the matter, were busy blaming UNEF
and trying to get the UNEF organization dissolved as being irrelevant. If it
makes you feel any better, there were at least three Security Council nations
calling for you, Chang and Chotek to be thrown in prison and put on trial.”

“That does 
not

make me feel better.”

“Crap. This empathy thing is still a puzzle to me.
I thought maybe you would be happy to be such a big a celebrity. Isn’t
celebrity mostly about people paying attention to you?”

“I don’t want to be a celebrity, damn it. Come on,

nobody
 on Earth had a useful idea,
even a nugget of an idea that could be developed into something useful?”

“Ah, I never said they didn’t have 
any
 ideas, just no good ones.”

“Please, hit me with one.”

“Joe, I already told you, the plans I heard were
stupid, not worth our time.”

“I will be the judge of whether monkey-brain
thinking is useful or not. Hit me.”

“
Fine
.
The first one, that multiple people considered, was for me to contact those ships
with a fake recall message.”

“Ooooh. Could you do that?”

“Joe, I 
could

do a lot of incredibly stupid things. I do

not
 do those things, because unlike you ignorant monkeys, I use my brain
once in a-”

Simms pushed herself away from the door frame she
had been leaning against. “I will leave you two boys to insult each other,” she
said with a look of bemusement.

“Simms,” I was instantly on the defensive. “Sorry.
We can be adults if-”

“No. Sir,” she waved her hands. “This is how you
work best with the beer can. Please, continue. Let me know you have a plan to save
the world again. I need to go break a bunch of newbies of the bad habits they
picked up dirtside. Colonel Smythe and I have a bet on how many of the Delta
Force guys will puke in their helmets the first time they train in zero-G.”

“This is all your fault, Joe,” Skippy’s avatar
looked sad while he watched Simms walk away. “If you weren’t such a childish-”

“Yeah, blah blah. I’m a big baby, whatever. Can we
get back to the subject? You could send a recall order to those ships?”

“It’s possible, it would not be easy, for reasons
I won’t bother to explain since we’re not doing that anyway.”

“Why not?”

“Ugh. Did being dirtside for a few weeks put your
tiny brain on permanent holiday, Joe? 
Think
!
What would happen if those ships received a recall message?”

“They would turn around, duh. Unless 
you
 screwed up and didn’t include the
right codes or something.”

“I meant, 
after

they turned around, Joe. They would go back to base, and discover the recall
message was fake. Plus, you moron, the Maxolhx leadership would be very
interested to learn why someone did not want those ships going to Earth. 
DUUUUUH
!”

That was an impressive ‘duh’ from him, he really
put a lot of effort into it. His avatar even did the slack-jawed Homer Simpson
thing to sell it. He should have at least gotten a Golden Globe nomination for
that performance. “I know that, Mister Arrogant. I meant-”

“No you didn’t, you big liar jerkface. You didn’t
know it until I told you.”

“I 
did

know that.”

“Didn’t.”

“Did.”

“Did 
not
.”

Crap, I knew this could go on until the end of
time, so I gave up. “Faking a recall message is not a long-term solution, but
it may be something we need to give us time to put a better plan together. And
if you can send a recall message, you can send other types of messages, such as
telling those ships to go someplace else instead of Earth,” I explained
patiently. “Like, we tell those ships to go someplace where we are waiting to
ambush them. 
Duh
.”

“Oh.”

“Are you going to apologize now?”

“Right, because God-like beings should apologize
to monkeys,” he scoffed. “I think not. Besides, dumdum, what happens if, through
some miracle, we do ambush and destroy those ships? The Maxolhx will be very
alarmed that two of their warships disappeared during a mission to your
miserable home planet. How would you explain that?”

“Working on it, Skippy,” I gritted my teeth
because the beer can was right, and I had no answer to his question. “One step
at a time, Ok?”

“
Not
 Ok,
Joe. If you destroy those ships without a plan for how to make the Maxolhx not
be suspicious about why two powerful warships went missing, you will have
accomplished nothing. Think, dumdum, 
think

for a change. You really do need a long-strategy plan this time. No slapping
together quickie plans to deal with the immediate crisis. You can’t take the
easy way out this time.”

“Eas- 
easy
?”
I sputtered, astonished. “When the hell have our missions ever been easy?”

“Joey, Joey, Joey,” he shook his head, the giant
hat wobbling precariously. “They always look impossible before we do it. And
they 
really
 look impossible before
you monkeys dream up a plan. But, come on, think back to our second mission,
when we had to destroy a Thuranin surveyor ship, a warship and two tankers, all
with the Thuranin never knowing what really happened. It seemed totally
impossible back then, but now looking back that seems like good times, eh?”

“You’re right. Thanks, Skippy, you are exactly right.
I shouldn’t be all depressed and anxious about two Maxolhx ships coming to
Earth. Monkeys kick ass, damn it,” I flashed two big thumbs up to show my
confidence. “We can do this thing, it’s not impossible.”

“Oh, I didn’t say that. This 
is
 impossible, Joe. Right now, the 
Flying Dutchman
 would have trouble taking on a Kristang frigate in
a fair fight.”

“The whole point of planning is to 
avoid
 a fair fight,” I reminded him.

“Yeah, good luck with that,” he snorted.

“Crap. So I should just give up?”

“No, I didn’t say that either. I definitely do not
expect you to succeed. However, your clumsy and ultimately futile efforts will
give me many hours of amusement, before the inevitable demise of your species.”

I gave Skippy another gesture with two fingers,
and they were not thumbs.

 

When Simms returned two hours later, I was playing
a game on my laptop, trying to make it look like I was busy. She was carrying
two cups of coffee, and handed one to me. Sitting down across from me, she held
her cup with two hands, blowing on the hot liquid then taking a sip while
studying me. “Any progress, Sir?”

Stupidly taking a gulp of too-hot coffee, I almost
burned my tongue. “Do you mean progress in developing a plan to save the world
again, or in amusing the beer can?”

“The first one.”

“In that case, no. Simms, this time it really does
appear to be impossible. The Maxolhx are just too tough, too advanced. I do not
have a plan, not even a hint of how to create a plan.”

Simms looked over her shoulder and shook her head
to assure me there were no eavesdroppers around, then she leaned forward. “I
don’t know how you usually dream up plans-”

“There is no ‘usual’,” I made air quotes with my
fingers. “It just happens. No, that’s not right. What happens is I think up a
lot of stupid stuff that won’t work, and kind of fumble my way down to the only
thing that will work. Right now, I don’t even know where to start.”

“We don’t need a fully-developed plan right now.
Start at the beginning,” she advised gently. “Take it one step at a time.”

“The beginning, right. Um,” I snapped my fingers.
“All right, here is what I do know for sure. We need intel. Those Maxolhx ships
might not have left yet, Skippy said the rotten kitties intended to gather a
baseline read on wormholes that exhibited funky behavior, before they fly all
the way out here. They had a long time to do that while we were stuck in the
Roach Motel, but apparently they were still collecting data when Skippy learned
about their intention to fly to Earth.”

“That is correct, Joe,” Skippy’s avatar appeared
on the desk. “It could be a month, it could be six months, before those ships
are outfitted for the extended voyage and begin their mission.”

“Ok. Ok, then, uh,” I leaned back and stared at
the ceiling. “Let’s hope it is more like six months than one. We need intel.
Skippy, can we get the info we need from a data relay owned by a softer target
like the Kristang or Ruhar?”

“No way, Jose,” the grand admiral’s ridiculous hat
swayed side to side. “If you really want to be sure we have all the info we
need, and believe me, we do 
not
 want
to tangle with two of their warships unless we know exactly what the Maxolhx
are planning, then we need data straight from the Maxolhx. We need specific
data on their flightplan, only the Maxolhx would have that info. Although, the
Maxolhx would compartmentalize that sensitive information even 
 
within their own fleet, so it is likely only
military units and relay stations along the flightpath would be provided the
data.”

“Great. Fan
-tast-
ic.
I was hoping you would say that.”

“You were?” Skippy looked surprised. He had gotten
much better at having his avatar mimic human body language.

“Sarcasm, Your Lordship,” I resisted rolling my
eyes. “The 
last
 thing I want to do is
take another unplanned risk by getting anywhere close to a military base owned
by the Maxolhx. So that leaves relay stations. This is circular freakin’ logic!
How can we know which relay stations are along their flightpath, if we don’t
know their flight plan?”

“Oh, it’s not entirely hopeless, Joe. I do know
where those ships are based, because the ships that will be assigned to the
mission belong to the Maxolhx Science and Intelligence Ministry. Calculating
the possible flight paths, between the main S&I Ministry base and that last
Ruhar wormhole they have to go through on their way to Earth, gives only a
half-dozen options. Seven options, to be exact. Of those, only three are truly
practical, the others are sort of going around your ass to get to your elbow. I
expect the Maxolhx will provide the information to any military bases or relay
stations along the most likely flightpaths, to be safe.”

“Oh, good,” I shuddered with relief. “You can
identify a couple of isolated relay stations in low-traffic areas, that we
could ping for the info? Wait! We need unmanned, 
automated
 relay stations.”

“Yes, I have created such a list. They are now
highlighted on the star map you can access from your laptop.”

“Great! I will look at the map, select a couple
candidates, and review them with you to make sure there are not any hidden
dangers before we set course for one of them. Whoooo,” I let out a heartfelt
sigh and looked at Simms, giving her the best smile I could manage. “This
mission does truly seem impossible, but if we take it one step at a time, maybe
we can get through this.”

“I agree, Joe,” Skippy’s tone was encouraging,
even bubbly with enthusiasm.

“Excellent.”

“Except for the one teensy weensy complication.”

“Shit! Damn it, Skippy, you know I hate
complications.”

“Well, heh heh, then you are 
seriously
 not going to like my next bit of news.”

Before I responded, I put my elbows on the table
and cradled my head in my hands. After a while, Skippy tried to speak but I
held up a finger for silence. The first time, I used my index finger to signal
I wanted one minute to myself. The second time, I used a different finger.

Simms blessedly sat quietly, waiting for me. Or
she checked messages or ship’s status reports on her phone like a good XO, I
wasn’t watching her. Finally, I was able to raise my head and speak again.
“What, pray tell, are you going to delight in torturing me with this time? I
know you need Maxolhx encryption keys and codes and all that. Your incredible
awesomeness can handle that easy stuff no problem, right?”

“It is 
not

easy even for me, but, yes,” he sighed, “I can do it. The encryption and
overall data security of the Maxolhx is an order of magnitude more advanced
than the laughably pathetic measures used by the Thuranin or even the Jeraptha,
but I can handle the tricky stuff of moving data bits around. What I 
cannot
 do at the moment, is authenticate
myself as an authorized Maxolhx ship to exchange data with a relay station.”

Simms and I exchanged a puzzled look before I asked
the obvious question. “Why not, Oh-Less-Awesome-Than-You-Think-You-Are?
Authentication is part of moving data bits.”

“In most cases it is, monkeyboy. Unfortunately for
us, actually unfortunately for you monkeys, over the millennia the Maxolhx got
tired of the more-advanced Rindhalu ransacking their databases and intercepting
communications, so they implemented a fool-proof 
physical
 security measure.”

“Physical?” My mouth gaped open and Simms was
doing the same. “Like a freakin’ key?”

“No, it’s not a physical key, dumdum. This is
fairly advanced technology they stole from the Rindhalu, who copied it from the
Elders. Truthfully, for the Elders this technology is crude and obsolete, but
it impresses the ignorant peasants. Before you pester me with stupid questions,
let me smack some knowledge on you. In order to authenticate themselves, each
Maxolhx ship, orbital or groundside facility or space station, must have a
Paired Quantum-State Interchanger that is shared with the other end of the
communication. These paired devices do not actually provide a communications
channel, they, um- 
Ugh
. How do I
explain this to an ignorant monkey? They provide a secret handshake, sort of.
When Ship A sends a request to communicate, the computer aboard Ship B will
check its Paired Quantum-State Interchanger that is tagged to Ship A. If the
paired devices exchange the secret handshake properly, Ship B will accept the
communications channel request. If not, Ship B will jump away just after
launching a cloud of ship-killer missiles at the imposter. Early on, the
Rindhalu attempted to impersonate Maxolhx ships, this resulted in short and
extremely violent space battles.”

“Skippy,” rubbed my temples, “my head hurts
already. Paired Quantum-State Interchanger? That’s, um, P-Q-S-I,” my fingers
slowly typed that on my laptop so I could see it. “Can we call those fancy doodads
a ‘Pixie’ for short?”

“Oh for- 
Ugh
.
Sure. If it helps your tiny monkey brain, we will call them ‘pixies’. That allows
you to fully understand the technology, mmm?”

“Don’t be an asshole. Do these pixie things work
by using quantum entanglement?”

“
What
?”

I frowned and hoped I had not made a fool of
myself in front of Simms. “You know, uh, Einstein called it ‘Spooky action at a
distance’?”

“Yeah, yeah, I know what quantum entanglement is, 
duh
. How in the hell do 
you
 know?”

“I’m not completely ignorant, Skippy,” I grinned
and winked at Simms, who gave me a thumbs up. “There are many-”

“Ha!” The beer can exulted in triumph, his avatar
dancing a little jig on the table. “I just checked your browser history, you
learned about that from a Wikipedia article.”

“Yeah, so?” I felt like I had to defend the honor
of Wikipedia. “Was that article wrong?”

“Um, well,” the beer can grumbled. “Yes, yes it
is. Or, no. Not exactly. It is accurate, according to the current and 
totally
 inadequate understanding you
monkeys have of the physical nature of the universe.”

“So,” it was my turn to give a thumbs up to Simms.
“Is this entanglement thing how pixies work?”

“No, of course- Well, I guess it’s close enough,
for monkeys. Sure, what the hell? If I told you that Paired Quantum-State Interchangers
function by tiny invisible gnomes flying back and forth on unicorns, your level
of understanding wouldn’t be any worse. My life 
sucks
.”

“My heart bleeds for you. Why do we care about
these pixies?”

“Because, dumdum, we have to get one so I can ask
a Maxolhx data relay station for the info we need. Damn, you are super dense
today.”

That gave me a chill. “What do you mean, ‘get
one’? Pixies are, like, a 
thing
? A
physical thing you can hold in your hand?”

“Yes, that is why I referred to the technology as
a ‘
device
’. We need at least one.”

Shaking my head in astonishment, I tried to
process that concept. “Let me see if I understand this. A Maxolhx ship wanting
to exchange data with another ship, or a relay station or whatever, first needs
to get one half of the paired pixie? Each ship or station has a pixie specific
to it?” The avatar nodded its head. “That’s idiotic. Before going on a mission,
a ship would need to get a pixie that is paired with 
all
 the specific ships it expects to encounter? What about
unplanned-”

“Whoa! No, Joe. Each ship or station carries
pixies tagged to every other ship, station or groundside facility the Maxolhx
have.”

“Holy shit. How big are these things?”

“Tiny. You could fit many thousand sof them in a
coffee mug. Seventeen thousand, to be accurate and that includes their
protective canisters. Unless you have a really 
big
 coffee mug, like-”

“Keeping track of all those pixies must be a
logistical nightmare. Wait, what happens when they launch a new ship? It has to
wait until every other ship and station has half of a pixie tagged to the new
ship?”

“No, you- Oh, I understand your confusion now. Joe,
the Maxolhx are smarter than that. Each ship and station carries half of a
batch of unassigned pixies, with the other half retained by their fleet
authority. When a new ship is launched or station is established, it is given
the other half of those pixies, which then become assigned by a shared
registry. Every couple months, another batch of unassigned pixies is
distributed across Maxolhx territory. This is complicated, I know.”

“Complicated? It is freakin’ insanity!” The
extreme measures the Maxolhx went through to ensure data security told me how
paranoid they were about the Rindhalu messing with them. “Ok, Ok, so we need to
get one of these things?”

“More than one, hopefully, to give us a margin for
error in case one of them becomes disassociated.”

“Dis- how would that happen?”

“When I wipe its programming and overwrite it with
whatever tag we need, there might be a glitch that causes the pair to become
unmatched. Try to keep up, Joe.”

“You’d better explain what you plan to do,
please.”

“Fine. I’ll break it down Barney-style for you.”

Crap. I was never going to get away from that
Barney thing.

He tipped his hat back and began explaining in a
tone that reminded me of a first-grade teacher, or Sesame Street, but he was
using a moronic Barney the purple dinosaur voice. “Joey, to get the information
we need from a relay station run by the rotten kitties, we need to jump in near
the station, with the amazingly wonderful Skippy adjusting our jump signature
to look like a Maxolhx ship. A relay station is in 
space
, that is way high in the sky-”

“Can you not talk like a brain-dead moron,
please?”

“You 
never

let me have any fun,” he grumbled in his normal arrogant voice. “Fine, jackass.
After we jump in, I will use the stealth field to mask our appearance, so to the
relay station’s sensors we look like a Maxolhx ship. Next comes the trick of
our pixie sharing a handshake with the pixie aboard the station. After our
authentication is accepted, the station will accept my request for data, and we
can get the information we need. I hope.”

“Not so fast, Skippy. You plan to make our pixie
look like one that is tagged to a Maxolhx ship? A real, existing ship in their
fleet?”

“Of course. Like I 
said
, if you were paying attention, the pixie needs to be
authentic. I can essentially copy a pixie that is in the registry, but I can’t
make a relay station trust an unregistered pixie. Why?”

“Because, 
you

dumdum, aren’t the Maxolhx going to get suspicious when they later find out two
identical pixies were used in different parts of the galaxy? Your plan will
only work if we not only copy the pixie tagged to a real ship, it has to be a
ship that really is near that relay station.”

“Oh, shit. I hadn’t thought of that. Thanks a lot,
Mister Party Pooper.”

“Ah, it’s worse than that,” I rubbed my chin, not
liking the ideas flooding into my head. “The target ship and relay station need
to have records that they communicated at the same 
time
. If the ship’s memory says it was at the station on Tuesday
and the relay station says no, it was a Friday, then we are 
screwed
. The Maxolhx will know some
unauthorized ship accessed data about the mission to Earth.”

Simms’ eyebrows flew up and she turned to me, her
mouth open. I knew that look, it meant she just thought of something I did not
want to hear. “Skippy, how can you copy a pixie tagged to a specific ship?” She
asked. “We don’t have to do anything like, board that ship to get access to
their pixie?”

“No,” the avatar waved its arms. “That is where
the magic of my awesome self gives us a huge advantage. The Maxolhx know how to
set quantum-state interchangers so they are paired and match each other. What
they do not know, because they are ignorant little kitties, is that it is
possible to make a 
pair
 of pairs, to
have 
four
 units matched to each other,
and so on. We can hang out near a relay station and wait for a ship to arrive.
Our pixies will be disassociated in their original blank state, but when the
ship and the relay station exchange handshakes for authentication, our blank
pixies will react to the quantum event, and I can set them to match the other
pair. Presto! Behold, the magic of Skippy!”

Simms and I shared a look. “You, uh, want to tell
him the bad news?” I asked.

This was her chance to show the beer can that he
was not so smart, but she didn’t look happy about it. “Skippy, we still have a
problem,” she explained. “You plan to copy the pixie of a ship, and after it
jumps away, we approach the station pretending we are that same ship?”

“Yeah, so? We can claim that we, I don’t know, we
forgot something the first time.”

“It’s not that easy. That ship’s flight recorder
will know it never went back to that relay station. When the Maxolhx compare
records, they will know someone got access to that ship’s pixie, and used it to
retrieve info about the ships going to Earth.”

“Oh, crap.” Skippy’s jaw dropped.

“Yeah,” I rubbed my temples to relieve the
headache that was building. “So, after that ship jumps away, we need to make
sure it disappears so its flight recorder is never compared to the station’s
records. We need to kill 
another

Maxolhx ship? Ok, Ok, we need to figure out how to find out when a Maxolhx ship
flying on its own will approach a relay station, then-”

Skippy interrupted me. “Why do we care if it is
flying on its own?”

“Because, dumbass, let’s say we copy the pixie of
a ship that was sent by its home task force to exchange messages with the relay
station. It will jump away, and then instead of killing that one ship, we have
to destroy an entire damn task force.”

“Oh. Uh, good point. I will add that to the list;
um, that could be a problem. Most Maxolhx ships travel in groups.”

“Oh, great!” I exploded. “Just freaking’
wonderful! You got any more good news for us?”

“I can’t think of anything that could be
considered good news, no, this is kind of – Ooh! Ooh! I got it! Joe, if you
have to destroy two or more Maxolhx ships just to get data from a relay
station, that is 
excellent
 practice
for however the hell you are going to destroy those ships headed for Earth.
See? Every cloud has a silver lining.”

I bonked my head on the desk.

“Joe? Hey, don’t blame 
me
. It’s 
your
 planet that
is in trouble.”

Without lifting my forehead from the cool surface
of the desk, I mumbled a follow-up question. “Can we forget about how many
ships we need to fight? Wait,” I said slowly, giving myself time to think. “To
get the flightplans of those ships, you will hack into the relay station
computer?”

“Yes, of course. Why?”

“Uh, after you hack into the thing, can you make
it forget we were ever there? That way, it will have no record of being
contacted by a ship that was halfway across the galaxy at the time.”

“Oh. Yes, I can do that. Huh, problem solved! See,
Joe? You got me all worried for nothing. Now you only need to solve the billion
other problems.”

“Like Colonel Simms reminded me,” I said with a
wink to my new XO, “we need to solve this problem one step at a time.”

“Skippy,” Simms shot me a warning look. “Can we
pretend to be any ship in the Maxolhx fleet, or will the relay station AI
become suspicious if it has data indicating that ship is assigned to another
sector?”

“Damn it, you are 
both
 rays of sunshine today,” the beer can grumbled. “Fine, so we
will just have to linger near a relay station until a Maxolhx ship arrives.
Then, after 
it
 authenticates itself,
exchanges data and jumps away, I can copy its pixie to authenticate us. Would
that make you happy, Joe?’

“It would make me less unhappy. All right, tell me
what you need to cook up a batch of these blank pixies. You make them out of
moondust or something?”

“Whoa! Whoa, whoa, 
whooooa
,” he dragged the word out. “No, despite my awesomeness, I
can’t ‘cook up’ any pixies. They are not something you can make in an EZ-Bake
oven, dumdum.”

“A what?”

“EZ-Bake oven, Joe.”

“Hey, I don’t care what kind of fancy-”

“Holeee-” he gasped in open-mouthed astonishment.
“You don’t 
know
 what an EZ-Bake oven
is? How can you possibly be so ignor-”

 
“You can’t
make one of these pixie things? Then how are we supposed to get one, or two or four
however many?”

“I can’t make even 
one
, because we don’t have the equipment to do that, and I can’t
build that kind of mechanism either. That is very specialized equipment, Joe.
We will simply need to steal the pixies we need.”

“
Steal
?
Like, take over a ship and get the-”

“No, no, no, you dumdum,” he laughed. “Nothing so
easy like that. The Maxolhx can’t ever know we stole anything. What we need is
to steal a set of blank pixies, probably from one of the two ultra-secure vaults
where the Maxolhx store that critical technology.”

“Holy shit. Before we can kill two immensely
powerful warships, we need to conduct a 
heist
?”

“Think of it as robbing a bank, Joe. Except, you
know, the bank can never know anything was stolen.”

“Yeah, that makes it 
so
 much better.”

“Ok, maybe it’s more like stealing the Mona Lisa,
but you replace it with a fake so realistic, the museum still thinks they have
the original.”

“This is not helping.”

“Except instead of cameras and bored security
guards, the thing we need to steal is in an ultra-secure facility guarded by
AIs that are suspicious of everything. Oh, and there is an army of killer bots
controlled by those AIs.”

“Are you even

trying
 to help?”

“Where’s your sense of adventure? Come on, this is
going to be great fun! Unless, you know, we get caught, in which case you are
totally screwed before we even get started. To be clear, by ‘we’ I mean you
monkeys.
 I
 plan to stay safe and warm
aboard the ship.”

“Do you have a plan for this heist?”

“Sort of. I suggest we watch ‘The Thomas Crown
Affair’, both of them. There was the one with Steve McQueen and Faye Dunaway,
and the later one with Pierce Brosnan and Renee Russo. Plus the ‘Oceans Eleven’
movies and sequels of course, and, um, oooh, ‘Entrapment’. That last one has
Sean Connery,” he added in his best Sean Connery impression. “Plus both
versions of ‘The Italian Job’. There are a lot of good films about heists, we
could-”

“How is watching movies going to help you with
planning to steal this dingus? Couldn’t you watch every movie ever made in,
like, ten seconds?”

“Of course I already watched those movies.
Watching will help give 
you
 ideas to
plan to plan the robbery.”

“
Me
?”

“Yes, 
duh
.
Planning crazy shit is 
your
 job, Joe.
Hey, you should get moving, we might not have a lot of time. Hee hee, it’s
ironic, isn’t it? We won’t really know how much time we have until after we
steal the pixies, which is the reason we need them in the first place.”

“Ironic, yeah. Wonderful.”

“I just thought of another problem. In a good
heist movie, the leader brings together a crew of colorful characters who combined
have the skills to pull off the job. The leader is usually a cool, good-looking
guy with charisma. Instead, we have 
you
.
Hey, maybe in our movie, the leader is a beer can, and he has a dog-”

“You are 
such

an asshole.”

“A dumb, mangy, ugly, smelly dog, with fleas.”

“I got the message. I will try to wear cool
sunglasses, will that help?”

“If they are 
really

big and cover your whole face-”

“Can we get back to the subject, please? What is
this vault place we need to break into?”

“Sneak into, Joe. 
Sneak
. If the Maxolhx ever know we broke in, it will blow the whole
operation.”

“Show me.”

He did. I wish he hadn’t.

 

While my mind was reeling from the terrible shock
Skippy had given me, I attended to some of the administrative tasks that Simms
had been handling. It was my turn, because she was duty officer on the bridge,
and I needed a break from pondering how to accomplish the impossible. First, I
met with the new science team. The new people were engineers or physicists who
had been aboard to study the ship’s systems. Before the 
Dutchman
 came back, some of them had been working aboard our
captured Kristang troopship, the 
Yu
Qishan
, trying to understand how that ship’s reactors functioned. Despite
the combined brainpower of smart monkeys from many nations, they had made about
zero progress getting the 
Qishan
’s
reactor restarted before Skippy came back to give them hints. The opportunity
to observe a working starship had been the reason six scientists remained
aboard the 
Dutchman
 when we left
Earth. I welcomed them aboard, answered as many questions as I had time for,
then moved on to the next task on my list.

Unlike previous missions where the crew was
roughly evenly split among the five nations of UNEF, our renegade mission had
only two people from India. Harsh Verma was a pilot aboard the Dragon dropship
conducting maneuvers near the 
Yu Qishan

when we lured the Dragon crew to the 
Dutchman

with fake orders. Verma had signed up to join the Merry Band of Pirates, and I
was very grateful he took the risk of volunteering. The other Indian was a
woman on the science team, Jhanvi Anand, she was an electrical engineer and
also was an expert in nuclear physics or something like that. Anyway, they had
already been assigned cabins and knew how to find the galley and knew that
Skippy’s little bots handled mundane stuff like laundry. The purpose of me
giving them a tour was to show them stuff that was not on the official ship’s
layout. “This,” I slapped a button to open a compartment that had originally
been a cabin until the previous Indian team cleaned it out and set it up for a
sort of makeshift shrine. “Is called a,” I struggled with the proper
pronunciation, “a Puja Ghar?”

“Very good,” Verma’s face lit up when I said the
word correctly, and his grin grew wider when he saw inside the compartment.

“The Indian Army team on our second mission set
this up,” I waved a hand to indicate the figurines on shelves. There were
several, I knew the elephant figure was called ‘Ganesh’ and one of the others
was ‘Vishnu’ but I was fuzzy on the details. The room was a quiet place, reserved
for meditation and worship, I knew it had been very important helping the
Indian team to feel at home aboard the ship while we traveled the star lanes.

Anand and Verma seemed thrilled to see a reminder
of home. “We also have Movie Night once a week,” I explained, “and we rotate
selections, so if there are any Bollywood movies you want to show to the crew,
make a list. I have to warn you, Skippy loves nights when the movie is from
Bollywood, because he likes to sing along with the dance numbers.”

Anand’s shoulders slumped. She had been aboard the
ship long enough to be familiar with Skippy. “Colonel, Skippy’s singing is, 
terrible
,” she shook her head. “He tried
to sing a traditional Hindi lullaby the first night I was aboard, to help me
sleep. I had nightmares.”

Verma had a different concern. “Colonel, Diwali is
approaching.”

“Is that the festival of lights?” I was proud of
myself for remembering that fact. Unless I was wrong. Was it the festival of
colors?

“Yes,” Verma nodded.

“If you want to do anything special, talk with
Colonel Simms,” I advised. “A festival aboard the ship might be nice,” I mused.
People needed a break from constant duty shifts and training.

“Will we have time?” Anand furrowed her brow. “I
have a mountain of technical manuals from Skippy to study,” she turned to
Verma. “You must be busy with pilot training.”

“I am,” he agreed with a grimace. “We will make
time. It’s important.”

“It is-” I was about to say something more when my
zPhone beeped.

It was Captain Poole, and she sounded in distress.
No, she was laughing about something, and in the background I could hear other
people laughing also. “Colonel?” She snorted. “You need, you should come to the
galley, Sir.”

“What is it, Poole?”

“It’s hard to explain. You need to see this.”

 

As I approached the galley, there was still
laughter coming through the doorway. And as soon as I stepped into the large,
brightly-lighted compartment we used for cooking and dining, I saw why.

Behind the counter, standing there ready to pour
coffee or hand out plates or whatever Skippy had assigned her- No, damn it, not
 her
. It. It was an it. It was
‘Anastacia’ the sexbot. Fortunately, this time, she, 
it
, was wearing clothes. Unfortunately, she was dressed in a sexy French
maid outfit. “Skippy!” I bellowed, my face already beet red.

“Hello, Joe,” he said innocently from the speaker
in the ceiling. “Are you hungry already?”

“You know exactly why I called you. What is 
that
 doing here?” I demanded while
avoiding the eyes of people in the galley, and avoiding looking at the sexbot.

“Anastacia?” He feigned surprise. “The crew is
short-handed, Joe. She will be helping out in the galley, and with stuff like
laundry. I 
told
 you, she was not
designed for heavy-duty maintenance tasks, so I can’t assign her to working on
reactors or anything hazardous like that. We can’t waste resources, she needs
to do something aboard the ship. I thought of assigning her to sickbay, but her
fingers are not capable of performing surgery. Her fingers were designed for,
you know, 
other
 things,” he hinted
with a verbal leer. “Are you sure you don’t want to give her another test
ride?”

“There was never a 
first
 test ride!” I protested, looking to Poole for confirmation,
but she had her face hidden behind her hands, her shoulders convulsed with
laughter. I wasn’t getting any help from her, and everyone else in the galley
was new to the crew, they had not witnessed the first incident with Anastacia.

“If you say so, Joe. Hey, what happens in your
cabin stays in your cabin, right?” He chuckled.

“Oh, for- Make her,
 it
, put some clothes on, damn it.”

“She is wearing clothes, Joe,” he said as the
sexbot slowly winked at me seductively.

Gritting my teeth, I looked at the ceiling. “You
know what I mean. Laundry and cleaning and whatever you want is fine if you
need her, 
it
, to be useful. Keep it
out of the galley and put some shapeless coveralls on it. That’s an order.”

Anastacia lifted her head up and snapped me a
salute, unfortunately that gesture caused her, um, assets to jiggle. “Yes, I’ll
do anything you say, Joey,” she agreed.

“Oh this can’t be happening again,” I couldn’t
take it anymore. Turning toward the door, I pointed at Poole. “Captain, see
that this thing is removed from the galley, and stays out of my sight.”

 

 

“Coffee, Sir?” Smythe asked as I dared to walk
into the galley a couple hours later. Ok, maybe I stopped and look through the
doorway before going in to make sure there was not a sexbot waiting for me.

“Is it that obvious?”

“You look like you’ve seen a ghost.”

“A demon from hell would be preferable to the
ghost I’ve seen. Has Skippy told you the first problem we need to tackle?” I
knew Skippy talked with the entire crew all the time.

“No, Sir, he has barely spoken with me today,
except for what necessary during our training exercise.”

“How was the exercise?” 

Smythe avoided my eyes, stirring cream into his
coffee. He had not mentioned the sexbot and he was going to avoid the subject.
“It is good that you are still working on a plan, Sir, because my team is not
ready to implement.”

“That bad?”

“Integrating my people into a cohesive team with a
common set of tactics will be,” he took a sip of coffee. “A challenge for me.”
He then changed the subject smoothly. “What challenge did the beer can hit you
with?”

I briefly explained about pixies. “These damned
things are stored in only two places in the entire galaxy. Skippy’s opinion is
it is impossible, absolutely impossible, for us to get into one of those
vaults. The Maxolhx designed their vaults to be secure against the Rindhalu,
and although we have Skippy, he is working with inferior technology,” I swung a
finger in the air to indicate the 
Flying

Dutchman
 around us. “No way to get
in, sure as hell no way to steal a set of blank pixies and get away without
being detected.”

“I’m sure you will think of something,” Smythe
forced a smile. He sucked at small talk.

“Maybe. Skippy also hit me with another problem;
we need a Maxolhx dropship.”

Smythe lifted one eyebrow. “Sir?”

“The pixies only allow Skippy to authenticate us
as an authorized Maxolhx starship, to establish communications with a relay
station. To be sure of getting all the data we need, and to erase all evidence
we were there, he needs to go aboard a relay station. Obviously, we can’t go
aboard a station that has a Maxolhx crew, so he is giving me a list of
automated relay stations. He can fake our signature so, from a distance, the 
Dutchman
 looks like a Maxolhx starship,
but to go aboard, we need a genuine Maxolhx dropship.”

“Why would a dropship crew need access to an 
automated
 relay station?”

“Skippy is confident he can sell a bullshit story
about the dropship crew being there to install upgrades, something like that. Once
he gets aboard, he can take control of the station’s AI and it won’t matter
whether the thing believes our story. The point is, we not only need to steal a
set of these pixies, we need a Maxolhx dropship, a real one.”

“Perhaps that is where we should start, then,”
Smythe suggested. “Dropships must be scattered all over the galaxy. Nicking one
must be easier than breaking into a pixie vault.” One corner of his mouth
turned up at the word ‘pixie’, he must have found that amusing. As a soldier, I
did not like saying that our mission was to obtain something I associated with
fairy dust, but I was not going to say ‘Paired Quantum-State Interchanger’
every time.

“Oh, sure,” I sipped coffee that was strong even
by Army standards. “Piece of cake.”

 

For my last task, or to be honest the last thing I
could do to avoid thinking about how impossible our mission truly was, I went
to inspect the hydroponic gardens. To inspect, and to send some time around
green growing things under the special grow-light bulbs we had brought from
Earth. The grow-lights mimicked the spectrum of sunlight on Earth to help the
plants grow quickly, and they were good for my mood. The lighting elsewhere
inside the ship were Thuranin units that were much more efficient and lasted
much longer, but their output was artificial and kind of harsh and they were
tuned to match the spectrum of sunlight on the Thuranin homeworld, which looked
slightly off to human eyes. Colors appeared subtly different under the Thuranin
lighting, not enough to cause problems, but enough to be noticeable even if
people initially did not know why they thought something was wrong.

Anyway, it was nice to be in the gardens, seeing
green things sprouting and growing, and helping them grow. Even Smythe enjoyed
working in the gardens, although he rarely had time to send more than a few
minutes there.

When I walked in, after scrubbing my face and
hands and putting on coveralls and a hairnet, Simms was there with three of the
science team.

No, I realized after only a few minutes, Simms was
not with three of the science team. There were three scientists there, but the
British and Chinese women were working on their own, because all of Simms’
attention was focused on an American engineer whose name I remembered as Frank
Muller. He was a nice guy the few times I spoke with him, on loan to UNEF from
a university like MIT or Caltech, that detail escaped my mind. He and Simms
were huddled over tiny seedlings of spinach, talking quietly while she
explained something to him. I could not hear what they were saying and I didn’t
need to, their body language told me everything I needed to know. Scratch that,
as captain of the ship I did not 
need

to know details of the crew’s personal lives. What I saw told me all I wanted
to know. The two of them were huddled closer together than they needed to be,
and they were smiling, and whispering, and then he said something that made Simms
laugh and she touched his hand and her hand lingered just a bit too long to be
a casual gesture. And I thought to myself 
that
is interesting
.

Then I thought that Jennifer Simms was an adult
and Frank Muller was a civilian and if two people could find a measure of
happiness together, before I got us all killed trying to accomplish the
impossible, then good for them. Especially good for Simms, I had kept her away
from family and friends and home and any kind of personal life for far too
long.

So, I walked around the gardens long enough to
inspect everything, and got out of there as quickly as I could without being
awkward.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TEN

 

“Sir?” Smythe rapped his knuckles on my office
door frame. “You have a moment?”

“Certainly, Colonel,” I waved for him to take a
seat.

“Perhaps it would be best if you called me
‘Smythe’? We currently have too many colonels aboard this ship.”

“Oh, yeah,” I agreed. He was right about that.
Smythe and Simms were now Lieutenant Colonels, and in all except formal
settings, they were addressed as ‘Colonel’. It was going to be cumbersome if we
referred to each other by rank all the time. “What is it, Smythe? How are the
new people fitting in? Are the Delta guys giving you any trouble?”

“No trouble at all, Sir. They are exceptionally
disciplined and eager for action. All the lads, er, and ladies. I am still
getting used to having women in Special Operations teams,” Smythe admitted with
a wry grin. “Everyone is getting along well and we are forming up into one
cohesive team. That is what I wish to speak with you about, Sir.”

“Uh, what part of it?” I had no idea what he
meant.

“Although the team is smaller than any of our
previous missions, we have the most international group of any mission, and the
people have not had opportunity to train together dirtside before we departed.
The two previous times, the five national teams were able to meet and spend at
least a week of working together on the ground before we boarded the ship.
There were still issues to be worked out in flight, of course. The point is, we
now have a team composed of people who never met, do not know the tactics and
training methods used by other people’s home units. Just getting everyone to
think in the unique terminology we use has been a steep learning curve, people
instinctively want to fall back on the language of their home units. Perhaps
the greatest difficulty is that most of the team did not expect to be serving
aboard the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
. I am accustomed to being
called for a mission on short notice, but this,” one side of his mouth curled
up in a wry smile, “was rather abrupt.”

“We could have had more notice,” I pointed at the
ceiling, “if a certain beer can had been paying attention.”

“Hey!” The avatar shimmered to life on my desk
immediately. “I 
was
 paying attention.
I told you, UNEF Command conducted all their communications face to face, or in
writing. Writing, like, on 
paper
,” he
shook his head in wonderment that anyone used such primitive technology. “That
would not have stopped me from reading their notes anyway, I could have- Ah,
OK. So, I was not completely paying attention. Hey! 
You
 try watching and listening to billions of monkeys, 
UGH
. Thought I would die of boredom. One
of the subminds I assigned to monitor social media actually did overload and
ask to be taken offline, because it could not stand listening to one more
argument about Real Housewives of Sheboygan. Seriously, your species cares
deeply about the 
stupidest
 things.”

“We never asked you to monitor every post on
social media, Skippy,” the argument was getting me frustrated. “You 
should
 have been watching the senior
officers assigned to UNEF Command, and the leaders of the Security Council
nations. That list can’t be too many people, certainly not enough for your
awesome capacity for-”

“I did that, Joe. At least, I did that as much as
I could. The problem was, the operation to take control of the 
Dutchman
 apparently was planned long
before we got back to Earth. UNEF Command had decided to take the ship away
from you, they were only waiting for the optimal moment to do it. Since that
Delta team got my attention, I went back to make sense of bits and pieces of
information. It looks like UNEF Command first started discussing the idea of
taking direct control of this ship about two months after we were overdue to
return. The elections of new presidents in the United States and France also
changed UNEF Command’s attitude about me, and especially about you. Your
president is 
not
 a member of the Joe
Bishop fan club.”

“Yeah, I got that idea when the intel people were
grilling me at Wright-Pat. That’s all water over the bridge now, so-”

His avatar’s hands were on its hips, glaring at me
with indignation. “The expression is water 
under

the bridge, you dumdum. Damn, you can’t even get-”

“I said ‘over’ because this situation is a flood,
Skippy.”

“Oh. Uh, go ahead, then.”

“Great. Back to the subject, Maj-” The new ranks
were still something I hadn’t gotten used to. “
Colonel
, Smythe. I meant no offense.”

“None taken, Sir. This,” he fingered his
lieutenant colonel’s insignia, “will take some getting used to for myself
also.”

“Yeah, but I make a habit of forgetting. I called
Desai ‘Captain’ for way too long. Go ahead, please.”

“Right. Instead of having five nationalities who
were cohesive teams before they came aboard, we now have people from Britain,
Canada, Poland and Germany. Plus Americans who are Delta Force and Marine
Raiders, they both have their own set of standards, tactics and training.”

“Interservice rivalry is a problem?” If that were
true, I would be upset. By ‘upset’ I mean I would be tempted to put on an
armored suit and teach the offenders a lesson by slapping the shit out of them.
Once again, I missed our non-nonsense Marine Corps gunnery sergeant. Margaret
Adams usually spoke softly, because the people who knew her did not wish to
arouse her wrath. With so few people on this mission, we could not afford to-

Smythe interrupted my dark thoughts. “Rivalries
and morale are not presenting any difficulty. Overall I am very pleased about
how to team is coming together, every one of them has put aside national
identities to further our common goal. To continue the progress we have made, I
would like to implement an idea that originated with the Indian team when we
were on Kobamik, during our black op. My home unit is, or was, 22 Special Air
Services Regiment. What the Indians proposed, and I would now like to
implement, is to replace current unit identifications with this,” he reached
into a pocket, and slapped a patch on the desk. “Special Tactics Assault
Regiment, or STAR. People aboard the 
Dutchman

would be assigned to four-man STAR teams. Colonel, we need 
one
 set of tactics and 
one

training regimen. If we get back to Earth, UNEF needs to create international
STAR teams to train together, in advance of deployment aboard the 
Dutchman
. We cannot afford
miscommunications in action.”

“STAR teams, huh?” I turned the patch on the desk,
looking at it from different angles. Then, realizing the logo was the least
important aspect of setting up a new unit, I looked up. “Have you mentioned
this to your people?”

“No, Sir, I wanted to discuss it with you first.”

Rather than making my usual snap decision, I turned
the idea over in my mind, giving it time to sink in. The people Smythe
commanded had not expected to serve aboard the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
, had not
expected to serve together. If they had dreamed of joining the Merry Band of
Pirates, those dreams most likely had involved joining the crew with their own
team, whether that was SAS, Rangers, SEALS, paratroopers or whatever
designation their home units used. “My only concern is this might be too many
changes all at once.”

“Sir,” Smythe leaned forward with a touch of
impatience. “My approach to taking off a bandage is simply to get it over with.
It might come as a shock, true. I believe now is the appropriate time to
present the STAR team concept to my people,” there was the slightest hint of
emphasis on the ‘my’ when he said that, reminding me that I had always allowed
him great latitude in managing the Special Operations component of the Pirates.
“They have been presented with several great shocks already, being assigned to
newly-formed unit will, as you Americans say, get ‘lost in the sauce’. If we
wait and tell them later, 
that
 will
be disruptive.”

“You know your people,” I replied with a slow nod
of approval. “Proceed as you see fit. I sure as hell need you to knit them into
one effective team, and do it quickly. We do not have a specific need for your
team yet,” I smiled.

He finished my thought. “But when you do, you will
need them right quick. Yes, Sir.”

 

 

While I tried to think of a way to steal both a
set of pixies and a Maxolhx dropship, I needed to discuss something with Skippy,
so I closed my office door ad called him. “Skippy, we need a backup plan.”

“Um, we do not yet have a 
plan
 at all, Joe. A backup seems premature.”

“I mean, if we can’t stop the Maxolhx from reaching
Earth, we need a backup plan.” Rubbing my temples, I stared down at the
desktop. “You always say our missions are impossible, but this time I think the
whole idea of us fighting two Maxolxh ships is arrogant bullshit. I got us out
here on a fool’s errand, and now I realize I asked people to commit mutiny and
throw their careers away for nothing. UNEF is right, I’m a reckless,
short-sighted amateur. This has been fun, now it’s time for a reality check. So,”
I exhaled in defeat, “we need a backup plan.”

“Okaaaaaaay,” he dragged the word out. “Is this
backup plan to throw a really 
bitchin
’
party before the Maxolhx blow your planet to dust?”

“No. A backup to
 Earth
. A place where humans can survive in secret and safety, if
Earth is destroyed, or even if aliens conquer us and turn us all into slaves.
We need a place where human culture can survive, not just our physical beings.
Like those Verd-Kris. Their people were enslaved by the Thuranin, and their
original culture was lost. The Verd-Kris are bringing it back, because the
Ruhar have provided places where they can do that safely. Work with me,
please,” I pleaded. “I am trying to think long-term, like you say I should.
Even if we manage to stop the Maxolhx from coming to Earth, there will always
be another crisis. We need a place for humans and human culture to survive, if
Earth is conquered or destroyed.”

“Ok, makes sense. What are you thinking of?”

“A ‘Beta site’. A planet we could use as a colony.
It would have to be somewhere no aliens could get to. And it needs to be
hidden, no one on Earth can know where it is. Going to this Beta site has to be
a one-way trip, I think.”

“That is a tall order, Joe. A place where not even
the Maxolhx or Rindhalu could get to?”

“A place that is not easy for them to get to, how
about that? They would have to make a major, major effort to get there,
someplace far enough away that they would never bother to make the effort.”

“Ok, but, um, I see a flaw in your plan. If this
place is so far away, how would humans get there?”

“Easy. We use Skippy’s Magic Carpet.”

“To quote you, ‘Uh, what’?”

“There are lots of dormant Elder wormholes in the
galaxy, right? Even ones that are outside the galaxy?”

“Outside the galaxy?”

“Yeah, in the,” I waved a hand vaguely.
“Magellan’s Clouds, something like that. And there are like, dwarf galaxies out
there too.”

“There is the Great and Lesser Magellanic Clouds,
yes. Also, in no particular order, the Fornax dwarf galaxy, the Carina dwarf,
the-”

“Yeah, yeah, that’s what I meant,” I leaned
forward excitedly. “See my point? There are plenty of places out there that
must have habitable planets, far from any place the senior species could reach.
All we need to do is find a dormant wormhole out there, someplace remote.”

“
All
 we
need to do? Joe, you act like that is easy. And by ‘we’ you mean 
me
. I have to do all the work.”

“Can it be done? Do you have a map of the entire
wormhole network?”

“Nope.”

“
No
?” My
jaw fell. “Crap, I thought for sure you would have something like that. How do
you know which wormholes are out there, where the connections go, or can go?
You used to screw with wormholes willy-nilly back when-”

“Yes, and my manipulating wormholes is what got us

into
 this mess. Listen, dumdum, I do
have a map of the wormhole network, but it is by no means complete. I can query
the network control system-” He sighed. “Ah, that is a bad description but I’m
talking to a monkey, so what can I do? When I connect to the network using the
controller module, I get a rough, temporary glimpse of conditions in the local
network. Think of it like the ‘Notice To Airmen’ bulletins you check before you
file a flightplan, only much more sophisticated. By keeping track of those
glimpses, I have been able to assemble a rough mapping, but it mostly covers
only part of the local sector, confined to a slice across the Orion and Sagittarius
Arms.”

“I call bullshit on that, Skippy. You have showed
me maps, many times, showing wormholes all over the galaxy.”

“Yes, and that map is from data I pulled from the
Thuranin, the Jeraptha and others. All that is publically available info,
nothing that would help us find a far-distant, dormant wormhole.”

“I’m throwing the bullshit flag this time. We have
more than once connected to a dormant wormhole you assured me nobody knew
about. If the wormhole is dormant, it’s not connected to the network, so how
did you know about it?”

“
Ugh
.
How has my life spun so far out of control that I am explaining Elder systems
to a monkey? To 
you
? Ok, dumdum,
prepare to have knowledge smacked down on you like a ton of bricks. Most
dormant wormholes 
are
 still connected
to the network, in fact it is very rare that a wormhole actually disconnects.
So, the network knows about the dormant wormholes and reports on them, 
duh
. Because wormholes that are
currently dormant might be reactivated following a network shift. Also, when
wormholes operate, they create gamma radiation, as you would know if you were
paying attention.”

“I was.”

He ignored me. “Through maps of gamma radiation
events, that I got mostly from the Thuranin who got it from the Maxolhx who got
the historical data from the Rindhalu, I know where active wormholes 
used
 to be. Compare that to the map of
currently active wormholes, and presto! I know which wormholes are dormant.”

“Yeah, I figured it was something like that.”

“
What
?
Then why did you waste my time with-”

“Do you know how network shifts work? Like, can
you predict which dormant wormholes are likely to be put back online in the
next shift?”

“Unfortunately no, and I am embarrassed about
that,” he mumbled. “It is not a problem of me not being smart enough to
understand the protocols that govern the network! It is also not some pain-in-the-ass
restriction inside me where I sort of have the info but can’t use it. In this
case, I do not have that info, because it is not available to me. For some
reason I do not understand, whenever I use our wormhole controller module to
query the network, it responds with just the info I need for a current requirement,
it refuses to provide more basic data.”

“So, when you ask the network whether wormhole X
can temporarily connect to wormhole Y, it will tell you yes or no, and-”

“It will tell me yes or no, and if yes, how to do
it and the parameters and any safety alerts. Like, if there is a massive star
in the line between X and Y, the network will advise against trying that
connection. The gravity well of a massive star can make the wormhole connection
unstable. But that rarely happens. What the network will not do is respond when
I inquire about the basic network geometry and settings. All I get is silence,
like it ignores my question. By the way, 
thank
you
 for mentioning something I am embarrassed about. That was 
so
 kind. Why does a dumdum monkey needs
to know how the wormhole network functions?”

“Because, Oh Greatest of all Great Ones, imagine
this scenario: what if we choose a beta site close to a dormant wormhole? You
screw with the network to temporarily reactive that wormhole, then shut it down
again after we return from bringing colonists to the beta site. Then, ten years
later, a wormhole shift brings that dormant wormhole back to life, and it just
happens to conveniently connect to a wormhole in Maxolhx territory. The beta
site would be screwed!”

“I see your point. Well, that makes things extra
complicated.”

“Exactly. I think what we need is a habitable
planet near a wormhole that is dormant and is so far away no ships could get
there by jumping. And where the wormhole is very, like extremely unlikely to
come back online within the next couple thousand years.”

“Whoooooo, damn, you are not asking much.”

“I know it’s a stretch, but, is there a way to
identify such a place?”

“Joe, the biggest problem is the requirement for a
habitable planet. Because the target site is far away, we can’t use wide-field
sensors to remotely search for habitable worlds. Anything we can see from here
would be pretty much useless anyway.”

“Why is that?”

“You want a site far away, extremely remote? Take
the Fornax Dwarf galaxy as an example. It is approximately three hundred
thousand lightyears away, so any photons we see from those stars left that long
ago. A planet that was habitable, but not inhabited, back then is not guaranteed
to be in that condition now. The world could have fallen into a deep ice age,
or a wandering brown dwarf star could have swung through the star system and
thrown the planet out of orbit. Or a native intelligent species could have
acquired technology during the past three hundred thousand years, and pose a
threat to your colony.”

“That wouldn’t matter anyway, we can’t establish a
colony on a world that has a native intelligent species. Our colony can’t be
established by wiping out the existing population.”

“Is that like your version of the Prime
Directive?”

“Yeah, if the Prime Directive is ‘do not be an
asshole’. You know the Golden Rule, right?”

“Whoever has the most gold makes the rules?”

“No. Ok,” I should have considered who I was
talking with. “Maybe that’s the way it really does work. I mean the Golden Rule
the way it is 
supposed
 to be. You,
know, ‘Do unto others’-”

“Ooh ooh! Do unto others before they do it to
you?”

“
No
! Do
unto others as you would have them do unto you. Or, uh, something like that.
You know what I mean. We can’t commit genocide to save ourselves from
extinction. Humanity got ourselves into this mess, we can’t push our problems
onto someone else.”

“I actually agree with you. However, that does
make the issue enormously more complicated. Joe, the only way to meet all your
requirements is to identify dormant wormholes, then go through those wormholes
and look for habitable worlds that do not have intelligent life. That could be
a slow process.”

“Yeah, but you can narrow the list by looking for
dormant wormholes that have G-type stars within, like, fifty lightyears?”

“Better make it twenty five lightyears, Joe, and
G-type stars are not the only candidates, or even the best candidates if you
want the colony to be there long-term. A yellow dwarf star like Earth’s Sun has
a shorter life and is less stable than an orange dwarf.”

“Ok, I will let you handle the sciency stuff.”

“A wise decision.”

“You know what I’m looking for, can you do it?”

“Give me time to think about it?”

“Sure. We are not in a hurry. When we get back to
Earth, I would like to propose to UNEF Command the idea of setting up a beta
site, and it would be great if we already had a good candidate site.”

“The 
Flying
Dutchman
 can’t bring many colonists to a new world, Joe. Even if we set up
cargo bays as living quarters, the life support systems like oxygen recycling
only have capacity for perhaps a hundred people.”

“I’ve been thinking about that too. We could add
capacity to the life support systems?”

“We 
could
.
It would be difficult, and the max I would be comfortable with for a long
voyage is maybe another fifty people. A hundred and fifty monkeys are hardly
enough to set up a colony. Plus, you would need to bring cows, chickens, hmmm,
colonists would probably want to bring pets like dogs and cats with them. All
those animals consume oxygen and water.”

“Sure,” I made a mental note to discuss the idea
with Simms. Bringing animals with us, like an interstellar Noah’s Ark, had not
crossed my mind, but Skippy was right. Unless we happened to find a planet
where the native life could provide nutrition to humans, we would have to bring
everything we eat with us. That was a lot of seeds and tubers and planets, not
to mention animals. Before the first crops were ready for harvest, the colony
needed to survive on food we brought from Earth. To be safe, we had to plan for
the first set of crops to fail, or get wiped out by a hailstorm, or attacked by
native bugs or diseases. Crap. Setting up a colony was 
complicated
. “I wasn’t planning on the
 Dutchman
 bringing everyone. The good old 
Dutchman
 could do the survey work, maybe bring an initial group to
test that we can raise food there, that the native life isn’t poisonous to us,
that sort of thing.” It occurred to me that if we could eat the native
lifeforms there, then they could eat us too. Maybe it would be better if we did
not find a world compatible with human nutritional needs.

“You plan to issue red shirts to the initial
group, Joe?” He chuckled.

“Hopefully not! Anyway, if we find a good planet
for the beta site, we need to bring a big group of people there to make a
viable colony. The 
Yu Qishan
 is a
troopship, how many lizards was she designed to hold?”

“Hey, dumdum, that troopship is a short-range
Kristang piece of crap. It was only designed to travel from the outer edge of a
system to the inner planets. It can’t be used to fly from Earth to wherever
this beta site is, unless the beta site is one of Jupiter’s moons.”

“I know that, Your Supreme Assholeness. The 
Qishan
 won’t be making the trip alone,
we can attach it to the 
Dutchman
,
construct a new hardpoint for docking. All the 
Qishan
 needs to do is provide life support for the colonists.”

“Oooooh, good thinking, Joe. Damn, I should have
thought about that. Ok, that is doable. The 
Qishan

is on the small side for troop transports, and part of its berthing space was
torn out to provide storage for equipment. What you really want to know is how
many humans could the 
Qishan
 support?
Hmmm, four thousand, shmaybe? Forty-five hundred if we pack people in.”

“Let’s plan on packing people in. Any people who
can’t stand the discomfort of tight quarters are not good candidates to set up
a colony. The colonists will be roughing it for the first year, at least. Ok,
good, we have a basic plan. Now we need a place to go.”

“
Fine
,”
he sighed. “I’ll work on it. Promise me you won’t bug me about it? I will
inform you when I have the search complete. Ah, well, this will give me an
interesting problem to work on during my downtime.”

“Great and, uh, don’t tell anybody about this yet,
Ok? I don’t want people thinking I am planning for failure.”

“Even though that is exactly what you are doing?”

“
Because

that is exactly what I am doing.”

 

 

Despite asking Skippy not to tell anyone about
setting up a beta site, I called Simms into my office to get her thoughts on
the subject, but instead she immediately wanted to know my progress on planning
what to do next about stopping the Maxolhx. “Working on it. Do you have any
ideas?”

 
“Dreaming
up wild schemes is your wheelhouse, Sir, not mine.”

“Sit down, please. It helps me to bounce ideas of
people, kind of talking out loud, you know?”

“Would it help if we got coffee first, or you,”
she waved a hand, “you went to the gym or something?”

“No, we’ll need a break anyway. All right, where
do we start?”

She sat down, I noticed she was perched on the
edge of the chair rather than getting comfortable. “I don’t know. Do you
usually draw up a chart or something?”

“I don’t usually ‘
do
’ anything, Simms.”

“You sit around until an idea hits you?”

“No, I-” How do I explain what I didn’t
understand? “I 
do
 work at it. There
is just not, um, a process, you know?”

“You have to start somewhere, Sir.”

“Like where?”

“Do I need to remind you of basic training? Step
One: define the problem.”

“Good! That’s good. Yeah. Hey, Skippy,” I stood up
and took a marker out of a drawer, the first time I had used the set of markers
since I drew the 
Flying Dutchman
’s
logo. “Can I draw on this wall?”

“It’s not a ‘wall’, Joe, it’s a bulkhead.”

“I’m a ground-pounder, Your Admiralship, give me a
break.”

“Also, that bulkhead is not an erasable
whiteboard.”

“Your bots can scrub it clean or repaint it later,
right?”

“
UGH
,”
he did his trademark disgusted sigh thing. “
Fine
.
If you insist, I can-”

“Great,” I didn’t wait for him. “Problem One,” I
wrote on the wall. “We need to kill two Maxolhx warships before they get to
Earth.” Standing back, I admired my simple summary of the impossible challenge
facing us.

“It’s not that simple,” Simms burst my bubble.

“Um, what?” I hated looking stupid, especially in
front of her.

“Maybe we should have started with our end goal, 
then
 define the problem.”

“How would that help?” I asked slowly while gears
churned haltingly in my head.

“If the goal we’re trying to achieve is only to keep
Earth safe for a couple years, before the entire Maxolhx fleet shows up to nuke
our planet into a crispy cinder, then all we need to do is kill two ships. 
But
,” she held up an index finger, “if
we are trying to make Earth safe for the next sixty years, then we can’t simply
kill those ships.”

“You’re right.” I groaned and slumped in my chair.
“We need to kill those ships 
and

provide a plausible explanation for why they went missing, so the Maxolhx will
not get suspicious and send more ships to Earth to investigate.”

“Again, it’s not so simple, Sir. The only way
Earth can be safe is if those ships report back to the Maxolhx leadership that
they 
did
 go to Earth, found nothing
interesting, and there is no reason for anyone ever again to go to our dull,
uninteresting planet. Then, somehow, on their way back to base, those ships
were lost. But,” she tapped her chin with a finger while she thought. “They
can’t disappear in a way that would make the Maxolhx want to investigate what
happened.”

“How the f-” I dropped the marker, which hit the
tabletop, bounced and when I tried to catch it, smeared my hands with black
streaks. My juggling act was for nothing, because the marker fell to the deck
and rolled over to Simms. “Holy shit. How the 
hell
 are we going to do 
that
?”

“That’s Step 
Two
,
Colonel. We’re still on Step One, defining the problem.” She was not smiling.

“She is right, Joe,” Skippy scolded me. “Shame on
you for questioning Jennifer.”

“I wasn’t question-” Damn it, they made me feel
like I was six years old and getting blamed for something my sister did. “Simms,
I agree. However the hell we do this, the goal is for the Maxolhx to 
think 
their ships went to Earth and
didn’t find anything useful, so the rotten kitties lose interest in our planet.
So,” I took the marker back from her and looked at the wall, which had only my
original scribbled note. Below ‘Kill 2 Maxolhx ships before they reach Earth’,
I added, ‘Fake evidence those ships reached Earth and found nothing useful’.
Again, I stepped back to admire my work. It sure looked a lot 
more
 complicated. In terms of solving
the problem, we were going backwards, damn it.

“All right, now we’re getting somewhere,” she was leaning
forward over the table, getting into the discussion. Simms cocked her head at
my makeshift whiteboard. “Add another line: ‘Provide plausible reason why those
ships would not return to Maxolhx space’.”

“Got it.”

“Hey Joe,” Skippy snickered. “Why don’t you add
another line like ‘Deliver presents to all the good little girls and boys on
Earth’?”

“Not helpful, asshole. Simms, this is great, but my
head hurts already.”

“Tackle something easy first, then. Assume we have
destroyed those two ships, and we have a plan for preventing the Maxolhx from
getting suspicious about why they disappeared.”

“Each of those is one hell of an assumption.”

She ignored me. “That leaves planting evidence.
How would we do that?”

“I have no idea.”

“Sir, I was talking to the beer can,” she leaned
forward toward Skippy’s avatar.

Skippy took a step back. “Why are you asking 
me
? You monkeys are supposed to be the
clever ones.”

“Because this is purely a technical question,” she
insisted. “How would Maxolhx ships transmit their information?”

“They 
could

send a speed-of-light message from wherever they are, but that wouldn’t do us
any good; by the time that message reached the Maxolhx, those rotten kitties
would already have sent out a task force to look for their missing ships. You
are asking what instructions those ships have for reporting after they return
to space controlled by the Maxolhx?”

“Yes,” Simms nodded.

“Well, in that case, I won’t know their
instructions until we download their flightplan, so this discussion is way
premature,” he paused and I suspect he was about to throw in his usual ‘duh’,
but he held back because he was talking to Simms. 

“No, it’s not premature,” she insisted. “The
Maxolhx Navy must have standard procedures for transmitting data when ships
come back from a patrol. They wouldn’t wait until they get all the way back to
base.”

“They would not wait that long, particularly on an
important mission,” Skippy agreed reluctantly. “Ok, fine, I do know their
standard operating procedures. Those ships would contact the nearest frontier data
relay station after they returned to Maxolhx territory.”

“There’s the answer, Colonel,” Simms announced
happily. “We need to load our cover story into a Maxolhx data relay station,
the first one those ships would encounter on their way back from Earth. Then,”
she looked at the ceiling in thought, “those ships need to disappear 
after
 they contact that relay station,
and 
before
 they return to base, or
wherever they have orders to go at the conclusion of the mission. The cover
story needs to explain that also.”

In my mind, she was making the planning more
complicated, not less. “Skippy, can you do that? Plant data in a relay
station?”

“It can be done, we have the same issue with
getting aboard a relay station to download flightplans for the target ships.
There are a 
bunch
 of problems with
planting data. To get data, the station has to accept that we are an authorized
Maxolhx ship, so we need pixies first. To plant the data, the problem is twice
as difficult because the Maxolhx will be expecting 
two
 ships, and I can only create a false image of one ship.”

 
“Uh,” gears
were turning in my head. “For now, assume we have some explanation for why only
one ship survived the trip back from Earth. Does that take care of the
problem?”

“It takes care of 
that
 problem, Joe. Next we have the problem that to plant data, we
need to physically access the station. Once we are aboard, I should be able to
fool internal sensors so the station computer thinks our crew are authorized
Maxolhx. Plus I can erase all evidence of our visit after we leave. But the
only way a station would allow us to get close is in a Maxolhx dropship, Joe.
From far away, I can fake the sensor data, but once we got close, the station
would see right through my masking.”

“Ok, so all we need to do is steal a Maxolhx
dropship, which we need anyway to get the flightplan data.”

“
All
 we
need to do?” Skippy gasped. “You must be joking.”

“Play along, Skippy. Come on, we are already
assuming we can destroy those ships and cook up a bullshit story that the
Maxolhx will believe. Assuming we can steal a Maxolhx dropship is Cub
Scout-level stuff by comparison. If we can’t get a dropship, we will never know
where those ships are and all this discussion is for nothing.”

“Fine, Mister Smartypants,” he huffed. “What about
this? Most Maxolhx relay stations along their frontier have crews aboard,
because the stations also act as sensor platforms for their attack warning
system. We may kill two ships, we may cook up a bullshit story, we may even
steal a dropship. How can we get aboard to plant the data? If we kill the crew,
the Maxolhx would never trust any data stored by that station, that would be
one too many coincidences.”

Simms shrugged. “He’s got us there, Sir.” She
shook her head. “Having to keep everything we do secret makes this much more
difficult. Maybe this 
is
 impossible.”

“Uh uh, no way you’re giving up now, Simms. You
dragged me down this fantasy rabbit hole, you’re not quitting now.”

“Never give up, never surrender?” She asked with a
wink.

“You got it. Skippy, if we can get aboard that
station without being detected by the crew, could you plant our cover story in
the computer’s memory?”

“Oh, sure, no problem. I will just ask magic elves
to fly into the computer core on their unicorns. Joe you dumdum, you are
forgetting one teensy weensy detail. Sneaking past the station’s crew isn’t the
only challenge. That crew will want to come to the docking bay to meet our
dropship. Duty aboard a relay station is boring, the crew will be eager for any
contact with the outside universe. Our dropship can’t sit in the docking bay
with the doors closed.”

“What if we posted a sign ‘If the dropship’s
rocking don’t come knocking’?” I suggested with a wink.

“Joe,” he sighed and took off his giant admiral’s
hat to scratch his shiny head. “Are you sure none of the new people should not
be commanding the ship, instead of you?”

“No way, Skippy. If anyone is going to screw this
up and doom humanity,” I pointed a thumb at my chest, “it is going to be this
monkey right here. Ok, so our plan also needs to explain why the target ships
would contact an 
automated
 relay
station, instead of the one they are supposed to ping on their way back from
Earth. Great. Wonderful.”

“We are making progress,” Simms sat back in her
chair.

“
Backwards

progress,” I complained. “Before you walked in here, we needed plans to kill
the target ships, and steal or find a Maxolhx dropship, and steal a blank set
of pixies, and board a relay station without the AI setting off an alarm. Now
we 
also
 need to dream up a cover
story to explain why the Maxolhx should be totally chill about losing two ships
that went all the way to Earth but never made it back home. Oh, 
and
 then after we destroy the target
ships, we need to board a Maxolhx relay station again, to plant whatever
bullshit cover story we dream up. This is fan-
tast-
ic.”

“I am happy to help, Sir,” she replied with a grin.

“Next time,” I was not grinning, “remind me 
not
 to ask you for help.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER ELEVEN

 

To locate the two ships headed for Earth, we
needed their flightplan info from a Maxolhx data relay. To get access to a
Maxolhx relay station, we needed a set of pixies and a Maxolhx dropship. Since
stealing pixies sounded completely impossible, I figured we should start with
the simple step of somehow getting a senior-species dropship.

We had no plan to do that either, but lack of a
plan never stops a monkey from doing what a monkey has got to do.

Also, I was depressed about what Simms explained
to me, that we not only needed to kill the two targets ships, we also had to dream
up a reason the Maxolhx would consider the loss of two powerful warships was
nothing to worry about. So, basically I decided to tackle the problem of
getting a Maxolhx dropship, so I could postpone worrying about all our other
problems.

We needed a plan. “Hey Skippy,” I tossed a tennis
ball off the far wall of my office, caught it and tossed it again. Tossing the
ball helped me think, and more importantly, it annoyed the hell out of Skippy.
Especially when I changed my aim so the ball bounced off the table, against the
wall and back onto the table before I caught it. The beer can hated that move
because as the ball bounced off the table, it went right through his
oh-so-dignified avatar.

“Damn you!” He shouted as the ball bounced through
his ginormous hat. “Stop doing that!” On a regular basis, his bots snuck into
my office or my cabin and stole the tennis balls, but I got more from Simms,
and Simms made Skippy give back the ones he had hidden. We only had like, four
hundred tennis balls aboard the ship, a bright idea from UNEF although they
maybe hadn’t bothered to ask whether the 
Flying
Dutchman
 had a tennis court, which it didn’t. Perhaps UNEF thought we
should convert a cargo bay into a racquetball court, though curiously our
supplies did not include racquets. Bureaucracy strikes again!

Thwock, the ball hit the wall and came back.
“Gosh, I am 
terribly
 sorry.” Thwock,
again.
  
“This annoys you?”

“Joe, it would be truly
 unfortunate
, if a combot busted through this door and tore that
stupid ball away along with your freakin’ arm, if you know what I mean.”

“Ok, Ok,” the ball went back under the desk. “Now
that I have your attention, tell me how we can get a dropship. A Maxolhx
dropship, not another lame Thuranin one like we have. And don’t bother
rehashing arguments we already had.”

“I have 
no

ideas for stealing a dropship from the Maxolhx, because theft is the only
possibility. We can’t buy, rent, build or find one, so we have to steal.”

“Uh huh, I figured that all by myself, Skippy-O.
Where and how can we steal one?”

“Again, I have no idea. The last time we needed a
ship, you had the idea to go recover three abandoned Kristang transports. You
got any whacky concepts like that now?”

“No. Seriously, Skippy? You know the galaxy, and
the Maxolhx, way better than I do.
  
Use
some of that monkey-brain logic you have learned.”

“There is nothing logical about the way monkeys
think, Joe, that is why it works. The universe is coldly, relentlessly logical,
so it can never understand how you monkeys accomplish the impossible every.
Freakin’. 
Time
! I swear, the universe
regrets that Earth’s solar system ever coalesced from a loose cloud of
interstellar gas. If the meteor that wiped out the dinosaurs had been just a 
little 
bit bigger, it could have-”

“Yeah, blah blah blah, the universe can 
bite
 me,” I emphasized the sentiment by
flipping the bird at the ceiling, an instinctual notion of the universe being
above my head.

“You should not tempt Fate like that, Joe,” Skippy
shook his head, his admiral’s hat bobbing alarmingly. If it had been a real
hat, it might have fallen off.

“Fate has not been my friend either. We monkeys
have had to survive without any help from the universe or fate or- You know
what?” I pushed my chair back and started to unzip my pants. “I’ve got
something for Fate 
right here
-”

“Jeez Louise, Joe! Put it away. Damn, 
nobody
 wants to see that,” he covered
his eyes with both hands.

I zipped my pants up. “I was joking, Skippy, I am 
not
 joking about Fate or the universe or
any shit like that. You keep hinting that what you call,” I used a deep and
dramatic movie trailer announcer voice, “
The
Universe
, is a real thing. Like, a living thing with a mind of its own,
that intervenes in our lives and defines what ‘Luck’ really is. It drives me
freakin’ crazy that you won’t or can’t tell me, tell us.”

“Joe, can we be serious for just a moment? A
moment is all I can take for being serious with a primitive meatsack like you.”

“Sure. Go ahead.”

“Part of the issue is that I 
can’t
 tell you what I mean when I say the universe hates you, and
that you have no idea what ‘luck’ is. Restrictions in my programming make it difficult
for me to explain the concept of- Well, there it is. My stupid programming just
intervened again. But part of the issue is that I don’t 
want
 to explain it to you, because I actually care somewhat about
you filthy monkeys. That shows how pathetic my life has become,” his voice got
choked up and he paused to sob a little. “I 
hate

my life. Anywho,” he perked up again. “Knowing the true nature of what you call
‘reality’ would be too dangerous for your species, and your society. You have
to trust me on this, I am withholding this information because it is truly in
your best interest.”

“I do trust you, Skip-”

“And only a little bit because it is 
so
 funny to screw with you,” he added
with a chuckle because he is Skippy.

“You are such an asshole.”

“It is my burden, Joe, but I bear it gladly.”

“How about you bear the burden of being helpful,
huh? I’ll make it easy for you. Is there any place in the galaxy, hopefully in
this sector, where the Maxolhx have ever abandoned equipment, like a dropship?
Starships they would probably self-destruct if they had to abandon one, but
dropships can’t be that important?”

“Hmm, let me check my memory. Um, yes. Yes, there
are several places that has happened. Unfortunately, almost all those places
were abandoned a long, very long time ago. Any dropships there would be so old
and obsolete, they would cause suspicion for us to use for approaching a
Maxolhx facility.”

“Almost all?” I asked excitedly. “That means there
are other such places that are more recent.”

“One, Joe. 
One
.
There is one such place, and it is not even worth mentioning, because it is
such a hard target. No way could this ship and a half barrel of monkeys could
assault the place.”

“Assault? Why would we need to assault anything?
You dumbass, I asked you for places the Maxolhx have abandoned. Duh.”

“Yes, the Maxolhx have abandoned this place. That
star system has subsequently been occupied by the Bosphuraq, 
DUUUUUUH
.” He did the slack-jawed Homer
Simpson thing again, this time adding his fingers in the form of an ‘L’ for
Loser on his shiny forehead.

“Oh, shit.”

“Egg-
zactly
!”

“Show me what you know about this place anyway.”

“Joe, I think your time would be better spent by
exploring options that might actually be possible, rather than-”

 

“I will be the judge of what is possible, beer
can. Show-” Just then, Smythe strode past my open doorway, on his way forward.
“Smythe! Come in here, please.”

“What is it, Sir?” 

“Skippy knows of a place where there is a Maxolhx
dropship with low miles and an extended warranty, but he tells me to forget
this golden opportunity, because the target is too tough a nut for us to
crack.”

“He may be right about that. Considering the
operations this dodgy beer can has recommended we 
do
 try-”

“Hey!” Skippy protested.

“Then if he thinks it is impossible, we should
believe him,” Smythe concluded.

“The impossible is our specialty,” I grinned.

“When we had our full, experienced crew maybe,
however-”

“I am disappointed, Colonel Smythe,” I said with
an exaggerated frown, sticking my lower lip out. “I thought the SAS motto is
‘Who dares wins’.”

“Correct, Sir. The motto does
 not
 read ‘Who does stupid shit wins’. Discretion can be the better
part of valor, I have learned that through painful experience.”

“Then consider this a useful ‘What If’ planning
exercise. If nothing else, it can serve to inform us what 
not
 to do in the future.”

“Yes, Sir,” he sat down just a bit stiffly.

“Right,” Skippy used a stuffy English accent. “What
we have here is a bloody difficult target, this will be a sticky wicket-”

Seeing the frown on Smythe’s face, I interrupted.
“Can you talk normally, please?”

“
Ugh
.
Fine. In this tough situation, I thought you cretins might appreciate hearing
the inspiring tones of Winston Churchill-”

“
That

was Churchill?” Smythe snorted. “Winston’s mother possibly. Or his dog.”

The avatar glared at our SpecOps team commander.
“This is the thanks I get for-”

“Skippy?” For once, I was happy that someone else
had pissed off the beer can. “Stick to the subject, please.”

“Fine. Look at the display, dumdums. There is
nothing special about this star system, it is a yellow dwarf, no habitable
planets, blah blah blah. The Maxolhx had a research station underground on a
small moon orbiting the second planet, which is a barren rock, about eighty
percent of Earth’s mass. It looks to me like the Maxolhx intended to use that
star system for testing advanced weapons, but they changed their minds when a
wormhole shift two hundred and seventy years ago opened a wormhole less than three
lightyears away, that leads into Rindhalu territory. The Maxolhx did not like
the possibility that Rindhalu ships had such easy access to spy on their
weapons research, so they abandoned the place. Because they did not want to
attract attention, they left much of their equipment in a cavern they excavated
deep under the surface of the moon, and only buried the tunnel entrance. Flash
forward a hundred fifty years, when the Bosphuraq decide to use that system. Their
plan was to use that isolated and otherwise useless planet to produce
atomic-compression warheads, which is a technology the Thuranin have and the
Bosphuraq very much want. Work went very slowly, with multiple accidents that
damaged the planet’s crust and produced no real progress, until twenty nine
years ago. At that time, the Bosphuraq either captured a Thuranin missile with
an intact atomic-compression warhead, that is their unlikely story, 
or
 the Bosphuraq purchased the
technology from some sleazy group of Thuranin. Whatever. What matters is, for
the past twenty years, the Bosphuraq have been making steady progress toward
creating atomic-compression devices with military yields, and they are now
trying to scale up the process to full production. From the data I have seen,
those birdbrains are more likely to crack the planet in half than to crank out
useful quantities of weapons, but they didn’t ask me.”

That did not sound good to me at all. “How many
Bosphuraq are there, and what type of defenses do they have?”

“Not many Bosphuraq, Joe, I estimate less than two
hundred in the entire star system. The facility on the planet is still in the
research phase, so mostly they rotate teams of scientists in and out. To
protect the research station on the planet, there is a military base on the
moon, and two very powerful space stations in orbit. Those three armed bases
prevent hostile forces from accessing the base. Plus, the research facility is
well-protected with powerful maser cannons and an energy shield. That is why I
say this target is too hard for us; the energy shield over the planet, and the
ones covering their space stations, are too strong for the 
Dutchman
’s masers to penetrate. To make things more interesting,
that moon was towed into geosynchronous orbit by the Maxolhx. Its weapons are
always directly over the facility on the planet.”

“I believe you. The cavern where the Maxolhx left
the dropship, how far underground is it, and where is it in relation to the
moonbase?” he showed us, and I whistled. “That’s no good.” The cavern entrance
was six hundred kilometers from the moonbase, over a tall range of mountains.
That was good. What was not good was the annoying fact that cavern entrance was
always in line of sight from the two space stations at any time. To get down to
the cavern, we needed to move a lot of moondirt, and we would be vulnerable
while the dropship flew up the access tunnel. The Bosphuraq could not miss us
messing around on the moon. No, the only way the whole plan could work was for
us to take out the two heavily armed and armored space stations, plus the
moonbase and the facility on the planet. We could not do that.

Or could we? “Skippy,” I traced a finger over the
orbits of the two space stations. Their orbits allowed each station to support
the other station plus the moonbase, those three were always within line of
sight of each other. “What type of weapons are the space stations and the
moonbase equipped with?”

“The two stations are basically battleships
converted to static defense, so they are stuffed with ship-killer missiles,
maser and particle-beam cannons, plus railguns. The weapons of those stations
are capable of punching through the shields of almost any hostile ship and
disabling that ship in one volley. I am talking about ships of equivalent
technology, of course, although even a Maxolhx ship might be in danger. The
moonbase has even more powerful railguns and maser cannons.”

“Heavy weapons, huh?” My lips curled up in a
smile, and I saw Smythe sit back in his chair with a grin. “Tell me, could the
weapons of that moonbase knock out the two space stations,” Smythe nodded
because he knew what I was thinking. “And destroy the facility on the ground?”

“That is an idiotic question, since the Bosphuraq have
no intention of using their own weapons on- Ohhhhhh, I see where you’re going
with this, Joe. You plan to infiltrate the moonbase, take over its weapons, and
use them against the other facilities? 
Holeee
-shit,”
he tipped back his ginormous hat.

“Quite so,” Smythe nodded curtly.

“We 
plan
,”
I wanted to squash the SAS man’s premature enthusiasm before it swept us both
into doing something rash, “to consider the possibility.”

“Unless you know of an easier way to get this
Maxolhx dropship?” Smythe asked with an expertly-arched eyebrow.

“No, I do not,” Skippy admitted. “I also do not
know of an easier way to commit suicide. Attempting to seize control of that
base would be extremely difficult.”

“Wow,” I leaned back in my chair. “That is already
a 
big
 improvement. We started with a
mission that was 
impossible
, now it
is merely extremely difficult. This should be a piece of cake, then.”

“That is 
not

what I said, monkeyboy,” Grand Admiral Lord Skippy glared at me. “Oh, crap, now
we are all doomed.”

“Why?” I didn’t understand his gloominess. “We
haven’t decided what to do yet. We don’t have a plan, Skippy.”

“No, you don’t have a plan, but that doesn’t
matter. Colonel Smythe has that look in his eye that he gets before he, as you
say, ‘does crazy shit’. The Special Air Services are a crack outfit when it
comes to executing an operation, but they are very reluctant to admit there are
limits to what determined men can do. That ‘can do’ attitude sometimes gets
them swept up in things they actually can’t or shouldn’t do. The worst part is 
you
, you big dope.”

“Me?”

“Yes, you. You are so jealous of the Special
Operations teams, you go into full fanboy mode around them. You always let them
do whatever they want.”

“I do 
not
!”
As I said that I gave a guilty glance toward Smythe and he tactfully looked
away. Shit. Was Skippy right about that? Did I have a blind spot about our
elite SpecOps people? “Hey,” I protested, “I have instructed Smythe and his
team leaders not to take undue risks when they are-”

“Yeah, blah blah blah,” the beer can scoffed. “When
is the last time you disapproved something the SpecOps team proposed?”

“Um, uh-”

“Egg-
zactly
.
During our black op to spark a civil war, you approved a truly lunatic plan for
teams to drop missiles off roofs in the middle of a crowded Kristang city.”

“Just a minute, beer can,” now he was pissing me
off. “
You
 approved that plan too.”

“No, I merely said it was possible for me to
perform my part of that crazy plan. I never said it was a good idea.”

“That was,” Smythe remarked dryly while brushing a
speck of lint off his trousers, “the best plan we had at the time.”

“It was still way too risky, and 
Joe
 is the commander. He should have
dreamed up a better idea. He doesn’t do anything else around here,” Skippy
added with extra grumpiness.

That didn’t sound right. Tilting my head at his
avatar, I asked “Skippy, what’s wrong?” 

“Your crazy plans always require me to perform
miracles, Joe. Someday I am going to reach into my bag of tricks and find it
empty.”

That still sounded like bullshit to me. Skippy
never failed us. If he said he could do something, he could. We never set a
plan that required him to do something he wasn’t confident about delivering. “What
is really wrong?”

“Oh, Joe,’ he sighed. “I worry about you, about all
you Pirates. You are setting yourselves up for soul-crushing disappointment. Even
if, by some miracle, you infiltrate that Bosphuraq moonbase without being
detected before you can take control of the weapons, and use those weapons to
destroy two other well-defended military bases, what then? Remote sensors in
that star system will detect the explosions and send out an alert, the
Bosphuraq have unmanned message courier ships that will jump out to signal for
help. You will need to move quickly to dig down into the cavern where the
Maxolhx kept their equipment, before enemy ships arrive to spoil the party. Then
you have to hope the dropships that got left behind are in flyable condition,
and-”

“Whoa. Wait a minute, go back to that last part.”
Taking on an impossible or just extremely difficult mission was worth the risk
only if we got the expected reward. No way was I going to risk people’s lives,
risk our only starship and risk exposing our secret, if the only reward we
could get was a busted dropship. “You don’t 
know

whether the dropships the Maxolhx left in storage there are spaceworthy?”

“Well, the Carfax report says those dropships were
not in any major accidents that caused airbags to deploy, so we can be sure
that- No, you dumdum, of course I don’t know the condition of those ships! They
are not ‘in storage’ as you said, they got 
abandoned
.
After the wormhole shift made that location uncomfortably easy for the Rindhalu
to access, the Maxolhx did not want to draw any attention to their presence in
that system. So, they quietly left most of their equipment behind and slipped
away. That is why even now, the Bosphuraq do not have any idea that their
patrons were ever in that system. And that is the 
only
 reason there is a cavern filled with Maxolhx goodies buried beneath
the surface of that moon.”

“Well, shit,” I slumped back in my chair.

Smythe was not so easily deterred. “Skippy, given
the history of the Maxolhx mothballing facilities they hope to use later, would
they have prepared their equipment for long-term storage?”

“Yes,” the beer can mumbled.

That cheered me right up. “Aha. So there is no
reason to think the gear they left behind is in poor condition?”

“Crap,” Skippy moaned. “When this crazy plan
fails, you are going to blame
 me
.”

 

 

 

Because we still had no idea how to break into the
pixie factory, and because Smythe wanted his team to tackle a softer target
before we raided the Maxolhx, we proceeded to the star system where Skippy
thought the Maxolhx had abandoned a facility on a moon, including dropships.
The moonbase was surrounded by sensitive, overlapping sensor fields that Skippy
grudgingly admitted were very sophisticated for the Bosphuraq’s level of
technology, he suspected they had stolen the sensor gear from the Maxolhx. Just
getting Smythe’s team down to the moon’s surface was a major obstacle. 

“This is the tricky part,” Reed whispered as her
Falcon detected the faint, outermost line of the overlapping sensor fields that
surrounded the planet, the moon and the two orbiting battlestations.

“Yes, it is,” the voice of Skippy agreed softly
from the speaker on the console between the two pilot seats. “Why are we whispering?”

“It seems appropriate,” Reed kept her voice low.

“It is entirely unnecessary, I assure you. In
space, no one can hear you kvetching.”

“I was not-” She decided that arguing with a beer
can would not accomplish anything.

Hearing the experienced Pirate arguing with the AI
was not boosting the confidence of Reed’s copilot. Beazer was a lieutenant in
the Royal Air Force and he had flown one of the Kristang Dragon dropships that
was controlled by the French. The sophisticated Thuranin Falcon was
significantly more capable, if a bit more tricky to fly. His first flight at
the controls of a Thuranin dropship had been when he accompanied Reed down to
Barbados, and on that flight, he had been instructed not to touch the controls
unless there was an extreme emergency. Despite spending nearly every waking
moment in a simulator or actually flying dropships while the star carrier
recharged its drive between jumps, he knew he was woefully inexperienced for
such a vital mission. “Mister Skippy, you can really do this?”

“Can I slip our Thuranin dropship through
overlapping sensor fields monitored by a species that possesses technology
equivalent to the Thuranin? If we disturb even one field line of a single
sensor net, that data will feed back at to the sensor node at close to the
speed of light, an alarm will sound, and this whole area will be barraged by
active sensor pulses that will pinpoint our location regardless of our own
stealth field? Can I, as we pass through the sensor fields, reshape those fields
as if we were never there at all, despite the horrible complication that the
main defense network tracks not only the individual fields but also the very
tricky interactions between the fields, interactions that have quantum effects
even I find difficult to anticipate and predict? Can I do all that, plus
monitor how the gravity of the moon you want to land on warps the sensor
fields, requiring me to adjust my feedback in real-time as you descend? Can I
do all that, from my comfy spot aboard the 
Flying
Dutchman
, hundreds of thousands of kilometers away from you?”

“Was that a question or an answer?” Beazer looked
to Reed for help but she only shook her head.

“The answer is simple,” Skippy assured the new
member of the Merry Band of Pirates. “Trust. The. 
Awesomeness
. Listen, Beazer, I know you are new around here-”

 
“Colonel
Bishop told me to trust the awesomeness.”

“Well, good. Joe did something right for a change.
In this case-”

“He said we 
have

to trust the awesomeness, because we don’t have a choice.”

“That is true,” Skippy agreed happily. “You
monkeys are hopeless without me.”

“He also said you are an asshole,” Beazer added.

“Sadly, yes, that is entirely true. However, it is
also true that I got this, so sit back, relax and enjoy the ride. Unless, you
know, something disrupts my connection to the microwormhole event horizon in
Colonel Smythe’s backpack, because that magical little rip in spacetime is what
provides instantaneous communications between me and your Falcon. Or unless you
move the Falcon abruptly, in which case there is no way I can compensate
quickly enough. Or if the Bosphuraq sensor field controller makes an
unscheduled change that throws off the quarter-second lead I have for predicting
the field shape in front of your flightpath. Or if, well, there are a 
billion
 things that could go wrong for
you out there. Truly, if anything goes wrong, heh heh, you are seriously skuh
-rewed
. Makes me glad that I am nice and
safe aboard a starship that can jump away at the first sign of danger, huh?
Gosh, you monkeys are 
so
 brave to be
risking your lives out there, relying on a beer can who has been known to be a
teensy bit absent-minded from time to time. Hey, that reminds me, did I ever
tell you the joke about-”

“Focus,” Reed gritted her teeth. “On. The task.
Please.”

“Sure thing, no problemo. I got it covered. Um,
what was I doing again?”

 

That flight was the most nerve-wracking experience
of Jeremy Smythe’s life, a life filled with nerve-wracking experiences. Any
transport in or out of a mission tested his patience, and too often the ingress
flight was the most hazardous part of the mission profile. That might not be
true on the current mission, for his team needed to infiltrate a secure military
base, neutralize all the advanced aliens inside, and take control without the
other military bases in the area knowing anything was wrong or unusual until it
was too late.

The flight still tested his deep reserves of
patience and his ability to ignore distractions and focus on what 
he
 could do to control his fate, and the
fate of his team. Inside the pack attached to the back of his powered armor
suit, there was a very special canister, a canister which held the key to the
entire mission. While Bishop would call the canister a ‘doodad’ or a ‘dingus’,
Smythe thought of it in more proper terms, as a Thermos. The Thermos he
carried, along with its power supply, was no larger than a travel size can of
shaving cream or ladies hair spray, though it weighed close to ten pounds.
Inside that Thermos, rather than hot coffee, was a magnetic system that
securely held in place one end of a microwormhole, with the other end aboard
the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
. Smythe amused himself by imagining he could open the
Thermos, stick his finger through the microwormhole, and his finger would
wiggle at the snarky beer can. What would Skippy think of that, Smythe had
thought with a silent chuckle. He knew it was impossible anyway, for the
microwormhole was much too small for a finger to fit through.

Mission planning had run into a stumbling block
when it was realized Skippy the Magnificent needed to be in two places,
potentially at the same time. He was needed with the away team to infiltrate
and take over the moonbase, but he might very shortly after be needed elsewhere
for the phase to steal a Maxolhx dropship. The solution was for Smythe to carry
a microwormhole with him in a sort of Thermos bottle, allowing Skippy to extend
his presence far from the ship while the 
Flying
Dutchman
 remained safely in stealth far away from nosy sensor fields. 

“Halfway through the enemy sensor fields,” Skippy
reported. “We are looking good. The field interactions are more complex than I
expected, I had to throw out my original software model and create and test a
new one on the fly. There was a really scary nanosecond there, whew! Am I ever
glad 
that
 is over. I think. Can’t
make any promises. Hey, Jeremy, how are you doing?”

“Fine.”

“That’s it? Fine? You-”

“Could you not distract me, or yourself, at the present
moment, if you don’t mind? And please call me ‘Smythe’ while we are in the
field.”

“Ah. Got the message. Well, mapping a path through
the sensor fields is occupying seventeen percent of my resources, this is
tricky work. I will, um, talk with you later.”

 

Jeremy Smythe occupied himself with calming
exercises like deep breathing, to conserve his energy for the ground mission ahead,
and to keep his mind off the fact that he had almost no control over his fate. His
team was unusually quiet and he did not have enough experience with them to
know whether that was an issue, or just the way that group of people approached
combat. Other than the three Delta Force soldiers, none of them had served
together long and had not yet formed the bonds of trust that gave them
confidence to rely on each other. What did worry him, more than the extremely
complicated operation against a vastly superior species, was that his current
team had never been in action together. He knew he could rely on Poole, who was
the only other experienced Pirate on the STAR team. No amount of deep breathing
could make him feel good about taking an untested group into a desperate
mission when anything could go wrong along the way, and nothing could be
allowed to go wrong with the outcome. He would feel better once they were on
the ground, and he could-

“Um,” Skippy’s voice interrupted his thoughts.
“Oopsy. Oh, Colonel Smythe, we may have a slight problem.”

All the effects of calming exercises were erased
in a split-second. “How slight?”

“Somewhere between ‘armageddon’ and ‘the universe
hates me’?”

“Poppycock! Neither of those are a 
slight
 problem.”

“Oh, when I said ‘slight’ I was grading on a Merry
Band of Pirates scale. You 
never
 have
actual ‘slight’ problems, so-”

“What is the problem this time?” The Falcon was fully
in the detection zone of the moonbase’s sensor field. The only reason their
dropship had not been noticed was because Skippy was actively reshaping the
stealth field that was tightly wrapped around the ship and using the field to move
the field lines back to where they would have been if the Falcon had not passed
through them. To accomplish that nearly-impossible task, the beer can had to
detect extremely small changes in the field and anticipate future variations,
in overlapping fields that had complex interactions. Even for His Arrogant
Awesomeness, it was no easy task. Plus, he had never done it before, so he had
to guess part of the process and adjust along the way.

“First, this is not anything that is 
my
 fault, except, hmm, maybe I should
have checked the moonbase’s flight schedule that is shared with the two
battlestations to avoid creating a navigation hazard. Anywho, heh heh, nothing
I can do about that now, right? So-”

“Answer the bloody question, please,” Smythe’s
cool British reserve was slipping already, and the team had not yet put boots
on the ground. “What is the problem?”

“Ok, Ok. Two fighter-dropships just launched from
the moonbase. They are going on a deep-space mission and will not be a problem
for the mission schedule, except that they are not climbing straight up away
from their launch pad. Instead, the lead fighter is using the flight as an
opportunity to teach dogfighting techniques to the other pilot, who is new to
the squadron. Because they evolved from birds, the Bosphuraq fancy that they
have a natural advantage as pilots over other species, and they are famously fond
of hotshot craziness.”

“Their course will take them close enough to
detect us?”

“What? No way, dude. As if! No way could the
crappy sensors on one of those fighters see through 
my
 stealth field. Perish the thought.”

“Then,” Smythe felt his reserves of patience
melting like an ice cube in the hot sands of a desert. “What, precisely, 
is
 the problem?”

“Those fighters are distorting the sensor fields
in ways I cannot predict and cannot fully compensate for. The moonbase knows
about those fighters, so when they distort the overlapping sensor fields, the
detection system does not send out an alarm. The problem is, the fighters could
make it impossible for me to predict the shape of the field around the Falcon
and adjust so your passage through the field is not detected. I am already at
thirty-seven percent of my capacity to fully adjust for distortions in the
field, and the fighters are still down near the surface, they have not
commenced their climb.”

“Could we turn around?” Smythe suggested, knowing
the pilots were listening to the alarming conversation. “Fly back out of the
field, try again later?” His mind was racing to decide whether it would be best
to wait until the fighters had flown away to try again, or whether they should
scrub the mission for the day and fly back to the 
Dutchman
. He needed to consider that the long flight in the cramped
quarters of the Falcon was affecting the readiness of his team, was already
making even 
him
 tired. Smythe had
wanted to fly in a big Condor dropship, but they only had one of those craft
left, and Skippy had advised the smaller Falcon would be easier to slip through
the sensor field. So, Smythe had been forced to limit the size of his team and
the equipment they brought with them. Several of the team were jammed into gaps
between partially-folded Thuranin combots, in positions that left them little
room to move around and avoid muscle cramps.

“Um, no, too late for that,” Skippy dashed any
thought of trying again later. “We are closer to the surface than to the outer
edge of field coverage. Being closer to the sensor field emitters makes it
easier for me to predict changes, and right now we need all the advantages we
can get.”

“What are our options, then?”

“Um, prayer? That’s what I’d go with if I were
you,” the beer can offered unhelpfully.

“That is not encouraging.”

“Hey, it’s not 
my

fault if you get punished for being bad person, or if the Almighty is testing
your righteous faith, or whatever excuse you use when bad shit happens.”

“Right. Prayer it is, then. While we do that,” he
saw the fright in the eyes of the pilots when he acknowledged that divine
intervention might be their best hope. “Could you amuse yourself by calculating
the odds that the actions of those fighters will overwhelm your capacity to
compensate?”

“Um, that would not be a good idea. Calculating
the odds requires crunching a 
lot
 of
variables, doing that eats up even my processing capacity. The fighters have
started to climb, I just used seventy two percent of my capacity when their
dogfighting distorted the field almost beyond my ability to adjust. I’m going
to be quiet now so I can concentrate, I will feed a ‘Capacity Used’ indicator
to your displays.”

Instead of having to sit quietly and do nothing to
control his fate while pilots flew the spacecraft, he and his entire team had
to sit quietly and watch a single number on the display that was built into the
rear of the cockpit bulkhead. That number was the percentage being used of
Skippy’s capacity to adjust the stealth field to avoid detection.

The percentage fluctuated between sixty two and
eighty eight, with every upward tick in the value causing breaths to be held,
and every downward increment causing quiet gasps in the dropship’s cabin. The
nerve-wracking situation continued until the number briefly hit ninety four and
Smythe’s heart skipped a beat. “C-colonel Bishop,” he had to swallow because
his mouth was too dry to speak. “If you have any suggestions,” the number
dropped to eighty six then popped up to ninety two and held. If the value
reached one hundred even for a moment, the Falcon would be detected and the
mission would be over along with humanity’s hopes for survival. “We would greatly
appreciate them, now.”

“I have been thinking about it, Smythe,” Bishop
replied.

“If you are concerned about stepping on my toes-”

“No, I, I just don’t have a solution. Believe me,
I have been trying. Those pilots are hotshots and they have an opportunity to
play with their toys, there is no way to-”

After a pause during which Smythe feared the
connection to the starship had been lost, he asked “Sir? What were you going to
say?”

“Give me a minute, I’m thinking.”

“We might not have a minute, Sir.”

“Oh for-” There was the sound of a hand slapping a
forehead. “I’m an idiot. Smythe, do not argue with me, you don’t have time.
Skippy, I know you can’t hack into the moonbase AI yet, but can you intercept
communications?”

“Um, yes, I assume you mean communications between
the fighters and the moonbase? The Falcon is not positioned between the
fighters and their base, but I can intercept signals. I must warn that if you
are thinking of a crazy stunt like blowing up those fighters-”

“Nope. Listen, if those fighters flew a nice,
straight, predictable course, could you compensate for how they distort the
stealth field?”

“Uh, yeah, duh. The problem is those fighter jocks
think this is 
Top Gun
 and they-”

“Shut up and do what I tell you,” Bishop blurted
out. “Fake a message from the base that instructs the fighters to fly straight,
whatever course is best for your prediction work. Tell the fighters some
bullshit like the base wants to test the sensor field, something like that.”
The critical value hit ninety seven percent while the 
Flying Dutchman’s
 captain spoke. “Also fake a message from the
fighters to base that their dogfighting is over, and the flight leader intends
to see how the newbie pilot can fly a straight course, or whatever you think
the moonbase duty officer would believe. You can do that?”

“Doing it now,” Skippy’s voice held more than a
bit of admiration. “Joe, you have a genius for getting the enemy to do what we
want them to do, and make them think it was 
their

idea.”

“Uh huh, great. Save your congratulations for after
the Falcon gets to the surface.”

Smythe watched the displayed number almost
immediately drop into the fifty percent range, then down to fluctuate in the
mid- to upper-twenties. “That is better than it was before the fighters
launched,” he observed with carefully controlled words, concealing the
after-effects of his adrenaline surge from his team.

“Yup,” Skippy agreed like it was the most obvious
thing in the universe. “With those fighters flying a straight course at a
steady velocity, I can remotely observe how they are distorting the field at 
their
 location, that allows me to better
predict the shape of the field at 
your

position. Those fighters are actually helping us. Whatever prayer you said, it
was a good one.”

Smythe ignored that comment. He had silently said
a damned good prayer and wanted to keep it for future use. “Colonel Bishop, I
think we have it from here. Unless something else goes wrong.”

“What are the odds of that happening?” Bishop
laughed nervously. “Every mission has some glitch, maybe you got yours out of
the way early. Bishop out.”

Smythe looked at his new team and smiled, at first
a forced expression, then growing into a genuine grin that lit up his eyes. “As
I told you, Bishop is a bloody 
brilliant

commander.”

“Oh, sure,” Skippy sniffed. “Like it was all 
his
 doing. What about me, huh?”

“Be nice, beer can. If you are a good lad, maybe I
won’t smear your precious Velvis with moondust off my boots when we return to
the 
Dutchman
.”

Skippy’s voice shuddered with horror. “You, you wouldn’t

do
 that!”

“Try me.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWELVE

 

“Almost there, almost, aaaalmost, done!” Skippy
lifted his voice above the whisper the pilots had been using. “Ok, you are now
below the sensor field coverage, in the shadow of that mountain range. You are
free to maneuver, your stealth field will conceal you from detection.”

“I am picking up active sensor pulses,” Reed noted
with concern.

“Oh, yeah. The Bosphuraq know this area presents a
security risk as a gap in their sensor field coverage, so they have active
sensors on the mountain ridge, sweeping the area. They are sort of like, motion
sensors, something like that. Do not worry, the Falcon’s stealth field,
enhanced by the incomparable awesomeness of 
me
,
is concealing you quite effectively. So long as you fly a smooth course, I can
predict the pattern of sensor pulses coming at you, and I can proactively feed
back the return pulse their sensor system expects from an empty valley floor.
That sensor system will see only what I want it to see, which is nothing. Ok,
you see the landing zone, through that low spot in the ridge?”

 

The hatch closed with a clang Reed felt rather
than heard, her helmet being sealed as a safety measure. That sound was the
closing of the outer airlock door, as the last of the assault team stepped out
onto the moon’s surface. Reed and Beazer were alone, with the Falcon parked at
the bottom of a steep-sided, narrow ravine. The active sensor system did not penetrate
into the ravine’s depths, and the stealth field wrapped around the ship
protected it from the prying eyes of satellites orbiting the moon. The ravine
had been chosen as a landing site not only because the sensor network did not
cover the area, it also had a valuable feature that the amazing Skippy could
not match; the rock floor of the canyon was almost free of the gray dust that
covered the moon’s surface. No stealth field could conceal dust kicked up by
the Falcon’s belly jets, so the craft had to land in an area relatively free of
the fine dust that stuck to every surface of the airless miniature world.
Cameras on the outside of the Falcon showed its skids and belly were already
tinted faintly gray by the dust, and the away team’s boots also would have been
coated by dust adhering by static cling, except the Kristang armor had a
handy-dandy feature that repelled the dust. The small amount of dust swirling
in the ravine could still be detected by satellites, so the mission had been
timed to coincide with the harmless impact of a small meteor near the area. That
small meteor had been captured by one of our Falcon dropships four days ago,
and guided on a course to impact the moon at the appropriate time. When the
satellites noticed dust floating above the ravine, that phenomena would be
dismissed as being caused by a rockslide triggered by the meteor impact, and
ignored.

“What’s next?” Reed’s copilot asked, twisting in
his seat to get comfortable.

Reed considered that for a moment. The away team
was already beyond the Falcon’s stealth field, so they could not be seen except
for through the synthetic vision provided by the alien AI who was oddly named
‘Skippy’. “Now, I am going to use a real bathroom,” she announced as she popped
the seal on her helmet and lifted it off her head. “The closer Smythe’s team
gets to the objective, the more likely it is they will need a fast evac, so
this is the time for housekeeping here. We will get everything set up for
immediate dust-off,” she smiled at the term that was ironically appropriate.
“And we will continually update a flight plan for picking up the away team, as
they progress toward the objective. If Smythe calls for help, we should not
have to think about what to do.”

“Right,” Beazer turned his attention back to his
console. Having a continually updated ‘what-if’ plan was sound practice for any
pilot. If an engine went out at 35,000 feet over the Rocky Mountains, the pilot
should already have landing fields selected, and revise those selections as the
flight progressed. Even without mechanical failure creating complications, a
pilot should have a radio ready for the frequency of the next controller along
the flightpath, reducing the workload when crossing that imaginary boundary.

If Smythe’s team got into trouble on the current
mission, it was unlikely the Falcon could do anything to help them, or even to
help itself. But, with nothing else to do while the Falcon sat wrapped in a
stealth field, running through ‘what-if’ scenarios was a useful exercise.

 

Reed not only used the Falcon’s tiny bathroom, she
took time to partly remove her flightsuit, apply a cream to an area on her left
hip where the suit had been irritating her skin, put the suit back on, and make
coffee for her and Beazer. “Thank you,” he beamed at her briefly before his
face returned to the neutral expression of intense focus, as he used his
console to run a simulation of a flight to attack the moonbase, if that
disastrous scenario ever happened. The Falcon did not have a prayer of
surviving such an attack, the only purpose of an attack would be to cover a
retreat by the ground team. In effect, the pilots would be trading their two
lives for ten, a trade Beazer would make if absolutely necessary. What made
that scenario particularly sour was the knowledge that, regardless what
happened to the Falcon, Smythe’s ground team would be unlikely to return to the
ship. Twelve lives would be lost, not ten, and all for nothing. He paused the
simulation as Reed ducked down to avoid the low overhead in the cockpit and
wriggled into her seat. The original much-too-small Thuranin seats had been
ripped out and replaced by couches that could fit humans. That was a great
improvement in terms of length but Skippy’s redesign had not been able to do
much about the narrow width, and pilots learned to keep their elbows up to
avoid bashing into the consoles on either side. Getting in and out of the
couches required gymnastic moves that made Reed grateful for the moon’s low
gravity. “Six potential sites for evac,” Beazer pointed at the display between
couches. “None of them are good. The first five allow us to hug the mountains
and stay out of active sensor coverage until we have to turn for final
approach. Then we’ll be exposed over this flat, open terrain. The only cover
out there,” he meant inside the vast, shallow crater that housed the enemy
base, “is this little ridge here. “To use that cover, we will need to fly all
the way around this ridge,” he indicated the lunar mountain range that
currently hid them. “That takes another seven minutes of flight time.”

Reed shook her head while blowing on the super-hot
coffee. “I don’t like that. If Smythe needs evac, he will need it right away.
If they are here,” she highlighted a circle within two kilometers of the base,
“it would take a 
miracle
 for us to
pick them up. The whole bottom of that crater is dust knee-deep or more, our
jets would kick up a fountain the stealth field could never conceal. We may as
well drop stealth and send up a flare announcing our presence. I say we forget
about planning an evac anywhere out in that crater?”

“Works for me,” Beazer agreed.

Twenty minutes later, they had five flightpaths
planned that allowed at least a chance for the Falcon to pick up the ground
team and survive for a return flight to the 
Flying
Dutchman
. The flying would be tricky and the routes very restricted,
because the microwormhole was with the ground team and the Falcon could not
rely on a magical beer can fooling enemy sensors. “I think,” Samantha Reed relaxed
back in her seat and sipped the last of the coffee, “that covers everything.”

She was wrong.

Three minutes later, Skippy called. “Hey, are the
two of you bored? I can load crossword puzzles on your consoles if you like.”

“No,” Reed was already irritated with the beer
can, who rarely left her alone. “We are not bored. We have been planning
potential sites to pick up the ground team, if needed.”

“Huh. Let me look at your work. Hmm, good, good,
yup, good work. Looks like you have just about covered all possible scenarios.”

“Thank you.”

“Exceeeeept, you know, for the scenario you actually

do
 need to run right now. Or in a
minute, when Colonel Smythe calls you.”

“Damn it!” Reed looked for a place to stow her
coffee mug, but one feature the Falcon lacked was cupholders. With one hand,
she restarted power flow to the main engines, while with the other hand she
drained the dregs of her mug and tucked it in a mesh bag under the seat. “What
happened?”

“Well, heh heh, this is kind of a funny story-”

“There is nothing funny about any of this.”

“Oh, I meant it is funny for 
me
, because I am safe and warm aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
. And, hey, it will be funny for you too, years
later when you are looking back on these golden times of adventure. If you
survive, of course. That’s looking kind of unlikely right now, so-”

Reed bit back a curse word and focused on the
facts. “What is the problem?”

“This is ironic, in the true meaning of ironic.
The two of you thought you had accounted for every possibility for retrieving
the ground team, but you assumed the ground team would stick to their assigned
route. That is not happening. Smythe right now is- Uh, I just told him that I
am explaining the problem to you- Right now, the ground team is 
here
, and they are proceeding to climb
this ridge into the valley to the north,” the route was highlighted on the
display. “You need to pick them up in this valley, um, that is going be very
delicate flying, there is an active sensor beacon on top of this hill here,
right above that valley. After you pick up the ground team- See what I did
there? I said ‘
after
’ instead of ‘
if
’ to boost your confidence- Although,
sheesh, good luck with that,” he muttered. “Anywho, after a miracle happens and
you flying monkeys pick up Smythe’s team, you need to fly back along nearly the
same route, and drop them off 
here
.”

Shan peered at the display. “We are flying this
complicated route just to relocate the ground team by,” she connected the two
dots and the map showed her the distance was a mere seven kilometers. “Seven
klicks? They can’t just walk there?”

“No, they can’t. Crossing that distance would
require transiting an area of deep dust, the ground team’s passage would kick
up too much dust for their portable stealth field to conceal. Plus, they would
have to climb and descend this steep ridge. The ground team could do all that,
just not quickly enough. The source of the problem is that crawler from the
moonbase decided to take a route different from the one I expected. Big jerks,”
he grumbled. “Those birdbrains followed the same route every other day for the
past seven weeks, but are they doing that today? Noooo, of 
course
 not! 
That
 would
make Skippy’s life way too easy. I hate the freakin’ universe!”

The two pilots shared a disgusted look. Beazer
spoke first. “Yes, Skippy, because it is all about you.”

“Wow, you understand that? This is great. Usually
it takes me 
months
 to train a new monkey
to have the proper respect for my awesome- Hey! You jerk, you were being
sarcastic! I should-”

“Ya think?” Reed interrupted. “We need to
reposition the ground team so they can intercept that crawler?”

“Maybe I don’t feel like telling you,” the beer
can pouted.

“Mister Skippy,” Beazer shot a warning glance at
Reed. “Please ignore my rudeness, we are under stress and, truthfully, your
awesome presence is a bit overwhelming for us poor monkeys,” he finished while
crossing two fingers of his right hand, hoping the beer can would not look
through the cockpit flight recorder video.

“Huh,” Skippy sniffed. “Well, Beazer, that is the
proper attitude. I accept your apology. Yes, the ground team needs to be
relocated so they can intercept the crawler. Smythe debated whether to walk
back to your Falcon and wait two days for the next crawler trip, but two days
cooped up in that little dropship would reduce his team’s effectiveness, and I
told him there is no guarantee the crawler will resume its original route.
Plus, every second you are there risks exposure, the base commander could
decide to conduct a combat or search and rescue drill and send space fighters
over your location. Smythe wants to go 
now
,
and Uber said they couldn’t help him, so it’s up to you.”

Reed bit back a retort. We need the beer can, we 
need
 the beer can, she told herself. “Understood.”

 

The flight was almost impossible, because the
microwormhole was in Smythe’s backpack. Without Skippy to fool the active
sensor beams, the Falcon’s flightpath needed to hug steep-sided mountain
slopes, hover in shadows until sensor beams passed by, then dart across the gap
to hover again. Twice, their belly jets kicked up small pockets of dust on
ledges or hidden in crevices, they held their breath as the statically-charged
particles hung suspended over the airless surface, but no alarm was sounded. By
the time they set the Falcon down ever so gently to avoid being detected by
enemy sensors that could pick up the ground shaking from thumping the craft
down in a rough landing, both pilots were shaking from the strain. Half an hour
later, their backs inside their flightsuits were still damp from sweat as the
ground team approached.

Smythe was first through the Falcon’s airlock.
Taking his helmet off, he offered a grim expression, but Reed beat him to the
punch. Wagging a finger, she scolded the SAS man. “Did you forget your lunches 
again
? You kids never learn.”

Smythe’s lips turned upward in a tight grin. “
Someone
,” he jerked his head toward the
airlock, “forgot to use the bathroom before we left. Skippy tells me the flying
you just did was exceptional, thank you.”

 

The next leg of the flight was slightly less
stressful, but only because the nerves of the pilots were not capable of being
more jangled than they already were. A complication was the only place to land
the Falcon was a ledge of rock jutting out from the mountainside, and the
approach of the crawler meant there was no time to fly an egress route after
dropping off the ground team. The Falcon would need to rest on the ledge, in
full view of the crawler as it drove by less than a half kilometer away. If the
stealth field failed, or the crew of the crawler happened to look closely in
the direction of the ledge, they could not fail to notice something amiss.
Skippy had tuned the enhanced stealth field to pulse between frequencies so
dust would not be attracted to the static generated by the field, but after
time there was nothing the beer can could do to prevent dust from clinging to
the field like an invisible dome.

“Right. Let’s try this again, shall we?” Smythe
attached his helmet once more in the Falcon’s crowded cabin. The timing was
difficult, the enemy crawler was moving quickly toward the landing zone and
Smythe needed to get his team away from the Falcon and into position, with
little slack in the schedule. He would have preferred to pump air out of the
cabin and lower the back ramp so his team could all exit at the same time,
rather than two at a time through the side airlock. Skippy had vetoed that idea
because the pumps in the cabin were not efficient at getting all the air out,
and if they popped the back ramp, there was a good chance enemy sensors would
notice the oddity of nitrogen and oxygen gas drifting over the airless moon’s
surface. “Skippy, you are certain the crawler will follow the expected route?”

“Um, hmm, I had not thought of that. I guess the
crawler actually has multiple routes it could take before it gets to that low
spot in the ridge ahead, I kind of assumed the driver would take the most
direct, fastest route.”

Smythe paused, hand ready to swing his faceplate
down. “You do not bloody 
know
? We
might have to do this a third time, if the driver decides to take a holiday to
see the sights along the way?”

“Hey, how am 
I

supposed to know what some birdbrain is thinking? Now that I consider it, there
is a route that would take that crawler within fifty meters of the Falcon. 
That
 would be bad. Um, perhaps you
should keep your fingers crossed that driver is in a hurry?”

Five, four, three, Smythe counted down five seconds
to control his anger. “Can you estimate the odds the crawler will take the
direct route? Please?”

“Sure, that is a simple math problem. Um, hmm, not
so simple. Colonel Smythe, I am pleased to tell you the odds are a solid, a
 solid
 shmaybe in your favor. I think.
It’s hard to say.”

Smythe pondered the fact that the 
Flying Dutchman
 still carried a dozen
tactical nuclear weapons in a cargo bay. Perhaps if the beer can was placed
between them and all dozen detonated- He could daydream about that pleasant
thought later. “Is being aboard a crawler a sought-after assignment?” He was
wondering whether crews stuck underground at the moonbase might compete to get
aboard the crawler for some time away from the routine.

“No,” Skippy answered, surprised by the odd
question. “No, crews generally hate being made to take a crawler out on this
particular assignment. The route they have to drive is dull and mostly does not
provide good views of anything interesting. Plus, they have to get out fourteen
times to check sensor domes, and the work of inspecting sensor equipment is
painstaking and tedious. Why does morale of crawler crews matter to you?”

“Because,” Smythe lowered his faceplate with
confidence. “Crews that dislike an assignment will wish to get it over with quickly.
The driver is very likely to take a direct route. One last question, please.
The crawler has two Bosphuraq aboard, are they new to the assignment?”

“No. Why do you want to know- Oh. You are thinking
that birdbrains who have not been on that assignment for a while might be more
like to engage in sight-seeing. That is good meatsack thinking. I can assure
you the crew roster tells me that the two people in that crawler are considered
knuckleheads by their commander, she has assigned them to that duty nine times
in a row, as a punishment.”

“Brilliant. STAR Team-Alpha, we are a Go. Again.”

 

Katie Frey lay prone on the gray rock, not moving
a muscle. Except for the muscles alongside her nose, she had an itch there and
couldn’t scratch it through the helmet faceplate. It was less distracting to
wiggle her nose than to let the itch drive her crazy.

The reason she could not move was that the team’s
portable stealth field generator was not extended over her, and her prone form
was covered with stealth netting that has been placed around her by another
team member. The last members of the team were across the crawler route from
her position, she could just barely detect the stealth field that concealed
them by a very faint shimmer where the field’s edges touched the ground. The
ambush site had been chosen largely because that shelf of hard rock was
relatively free of the gray dust that coated the entire moon, the team did not
leave deep bootprints behind them. As they walked, each person dragged behind
them a sweeper that smoothed out the shallow tracks they made, and applied a
charge that made the dust want to cling to the moon’s surface rather than
churning in swirls. Virtual testing by Skippy showed the sweepers could not
erase tracks more than a few millimeters deep, so the ambush site, and the
route from the Falcon to the ambush had been chosen to avoid deep layers of
dust.

After a minute, and with only nine minutes to
spare before the crawler would come around a spur of the ridge and into view,
the portable stealth field turned off, and Katie’s enhanced synthetic vision
could not see any other members of the team. For the critical phase of the
ambush, there would be no communications between the team, not even
low-powered, line-of-sight laser burst transmissions. Mission success relied on
every member of the team knowing and performing their assigned task, and the
team as a whole relied on 
Katie
 to do
her task first and do it correctly.

The reason Katie had all the pressure on her was
the method of stopping the enemy crawler, without the two-person crew realizing
there was anything suspicious, had been 
her

idea. The original plan had been for a sniper to shoot a tread, forcing the
crawler to a halt. The crew would then get outside to examine and fix the
problem, allowing the concealed STAR team to take them out. Skippy’s response
to that plan was scathing, pointing out that the crawler had external cameras
and the crew could easily tell the treads had been impacted by a rifle round or
maser beam or some other type of hostile force. When the crew saw they had been
shot at, the 
last
 thing they would do
is get out of their vehicle, and they would activate the crawler’s automated
defenses that were targeted by sensitive motion sensors. The autocannons of the
crawler could shred the team as soon as they moved.

Whatever plan they used, it could not allow any
significant external damage to the crawler, or the crawler would not be allowed
inside the base’s garage for the team to infiltrate the enemy facility. Smythe
and Bishop were at a standstill in planning when Katie on her own initiative
studied diagrams of the crawler vehicle. Slung underneath for easy access were
spare treads, flexible toothed belts the treads attached to, jacks and pads,
basically everything a crew needed to swap out a busted tread quickly. Katie
suggested the ship’s fabricators could create a duplicate tread and belt, which
could be placed where the crawler would run over it and get tangled. Looking
out through the external cameras, the crew would curse the idiot crew of a
previous crawler who had lost part of their gear, but they would not be
suspicious of enemy activity, so they would go outside to remove the
obstruction.

Katie had been pleased with herself, until Smythe
gently pointed out the flaw in her plan; they could not be sure precisely which
route the crawler would travel, and anyway the crawler’s forward sensors would
detect the obstruction and maneuver around it. Laying several sets of treads
and belts, so the crawler could not avoid becoming entangled, would certainly
arouse suspicion. Basically, the senior STAR officer and the alien AI had
patted her on the head and somewhat condescendingly told her nice try, but her
plan would not work.

So, she had talked with the matronly ship AI the
crew called ‘Nagatha’. That AI had been sympathetic and ran through several
concepts until Katie had a fool-proof plan. When Colonel Bishop flashed his
charming grin and an enthusiastic thumbs up at her, she knew they had a
workable plan for that phase of the difficult operation. She also felt, for the
first time since she came aboard, that she might, just might, actually belong
in the elite Merry Band of Pirates.

That was why she was alone under stealth netting,
lying prone on cold lunar rock, trying to control her breathing and deal with
her itchy nose, while she waited to play her critical part in the operation. Be
careful what you ask for, Katie, she told herself. You might get more than you
can handle. Maybe she could 
not

handle the pressure. What was she doing on an alien moon, thousands of
lightyears from home? Maybe she should have stayed-

No. She recognized her feelings of doubt as
nothing more than pre-race jitters, the butterflies she got in her stomach
before the starting gun or horn sounded. That thought was confirmed when the
nose of the crawler came around a corner, and all her nervous tension melted
away to the back of her mind. She had a job to do, and the sudden calm that
washed over her gave her confidence that she could handle any last-minute complications.

Complications like the crawler veering abruptly
from the straight course it had followed since rounding the corner. There wasn’t
anything Katie could see that would have caused the driver to- Oh, there it
was. A pothole filled in with dust that the crawler’s forward sensors must have
detected at the last moment, swerving the vehicle to protect the treads. Were
there any potholes in the rocky path in front of Katie? She did not remember
any, but then she had been walking under the spooky ultra-darkness of a
portable stealth field. The ground in front of her had been illuminated only by
lights attached to the waist of her suit, and that light had been weirdly bent
and distorted. Without her suit computer to interpret the images for her, she
would not have recognized her own boots. The light-bending effect was
disturbing enough when the field was static, but when it moved along with the
two people carrying the device, the result was visual chaos.

No matter. The crawler was moving along the
expected path, and soon would be opposite her position, its cheery bright blue
sides exposed and vulnerable.

She was lying in between two rocks, with only a
thin wire poking above the stealth netting to provide a view, which her suit
computer fed to her faceplate and the scope of her modified Kristang rifle. The
narrow gap between rocks caused her to be wedged in uncomfortably, with comfort
given the least consideration. The position was perfect, for it provided a
clear view of the exact spot where the crawler would fall into shadow by the
jagged peaks above. That transition line, between the intense brightness of
sunlight and the cold darkness of shadow, would be the most difficult area for
enemy satellites overhead to get clear images of, and fooling enemy sensors was
the key to the whole plan.

Positioning the portable stealth field generator
was the trickiest part of the operation. In the event that the crawler moved
away from Katie’s position, there was a backup sniper on the other side of the
track, with instructions to fire only if the crawler rolled on past an
imaginary line that represented the limit of Katie’s effective field of fire.
The second sniper provided a backup if the crawler moved on either side of the
track by about a quarter kilometer. What the team did not have a backup for was
the amazing technology of the portable stealth field. Following Skippy’s
instructions, the two men carrying the heavy unit had placed it in the optimal
place to envelop the crawler, but only if the crawler did not vary too much
along its course toward the gap in the mountain ridge ahead. The synthetic view
projected on the inside of Katie’s faceplate had imaginary lines showing where
the crawler had to be in relation to the stealth field, or the operation would
be called off and the team would let the crawler roll past, unaware of its
narrow and lucky escape. The team would then regroup to try again, 
again
.

Fortunately, the crawler was sticking closely to
the route used by previous crawlers, the tracks they had made outlined clearly
in the harsh sunlight. As it approached, Katie confirmed it was within the
green lines of optimal positioning for the stealth field to cover.

As the crawler drew closer to the target area,
Katie did not hear the crackling burst of static that was the designated abort
code. She did not think anything dramatic like ‘we are really doing this’ or
‘here we go’ or ‘God please do not let me screw this up’, she did not think
anything at all, with her mind calm and entirely focused. The amazing targeting
optics of her Kristang suit and rifle not only showed her precisely the tread
she selected, they provided a feature where she could designate that tread, and
the rifle would automatically follow it. The electric nanomotors built into the
rifle moved the muzzle slightly independently of the stock she held, keeping
focus on the tread she had selected. It was almost startling when the rifle
fired a mere second after she pressed the trigger to authorize the weapon.

What shot out from the rifle was a round specially
fabricated by Skippy’s bots. The round was low velocity so that the device
impacted the crawler without a sharp sound that would startle the crew. What
the blank round launched was not a weapon but a heavy object that, when folded
up, was the size of a tennis ball. As it got within ten meters of the targeted
tread, the device unfolded, colliding with the designated tread just as it
rolled under the crawler and immediately became entangled, jamming the tread.
To protect the entire tread assembly, the crawler automatically ground to a
halt.

That was Katie’s entire part of the operation to
capture the crawler, for the modifications to her rifle temporarily rendered it
unable to fire anything other than the specialized ammo to disable the alien
vehicle. Her part of the operation had been entirely successful.

 

“Success!” Skippy shouted into Smythe’s ear loudly
enough to make him wince. “This confirms my suspicion that Joe’s supposed brilliant
cleverness is nothing special, 
all

you monkeys are capable of dreaming up inventive plans.”

Smythe smiled despite his intense focus on the
operation. “Are you saying that all humans are capable of doing something 
you
 can’t do?”

“What? I, I, ooooooh, you Limey bastard, I hate
you 
so
 much-”

“Quiet please. Sitrep.”

“
Fine
,”
the beer can huffed. “Why do you have to ask 
me
 about the situation? I’m feeding the data to your suit, you can
watch all the spine-tingling action on your faceplate.”

“Because, while you are providing a play-by-play
report, you are not making an arse of yourself and annoying me.”

“Oh. Good point. That is fair, I guess. Um, not
much is going on yet, the crew just turned off power to the tread motors, and,
yup, they followed proper procedure to disconnect power flow so they can work
on the treads. Hee hee, they are indeed cursing the previous crew who they
suspect of losing their gear and not reporting it. I wonder if the base charges
crew for lost gear? That would be a good incentive not to report anything
missing. Anyway, they just called the base, or they tried to, because of course
I am intercepting all signals. The base duty officer, meaning me, asked them
how long of a delay there will be 
this

time, implying those knuckleheads are expected to screw up. I was grumpy about
it, too, that should make the crawler crew eager to get the job done fast.
Aaaaand, yes, they just stepped into the airlock. I am now engaging the stealth
field to cover the crawler. Field strength is good. Wait for it, waaaaait, Ok,
we’re good. None of the satellites sounded an alarm when the stealth field
engaged and their real view of the crawler was replaced by the view I want them
to see, because I am 
aaaaawe-some
,”
he sang. “Continuing the play-by-play as requested, the outer airlock door is
cycling open- we now pause for a word from our sponsor.” He switched to a phony
used-car-salesman voice. “Skippy’s patented Awesomeness Pills can make you
awesome, although, let’s face it, making 
you

even ‘meh’ would be a 
freakin’

miracle, so-”

“Skippy!”

“Ok, Ok, damn you are just like Buzzkill Joe, you
never let me have any fun. Tweedledum and Tweedledumbass are now stepping down
onto the surface, and walking back toward- Oh ho! The quarterbacks are 
down
, a smashing tackle! Double play!
Two outs!”

“I think you are mixing metaphors there.”

“Ah, whatever. You brits don’t play American
football or baseball anyway, so it’s all Greek to you. Both knuckleheads are
dead, those were superb shots by your team, you should congratulate them.
After, you know, you move your ass because we are running out of time. Full
comms are now available.”

“ST-Alpha, good show,” Smythe announced in a
typically understated monotone as he rose to his feet, being careful not to
move faster than the sweeper behind him could cope with the voids he was
leaving in the fine layer of dust. “Execute clean-up.” In his synthetic vision,
he could see all members of the team rising and proceeding toward the crawler,
moving deliberately as they had been trained, no one moved with undue speed and
there were no wasted motions. He noted that the Canadian sniper paused as she
neared the crawler to stoop and pick up the discarded shell that had covered
the special munition she had fired. Without being told, she walked backward
then forward again over the spot where the shell had fallen and tumbled in the
dust, the sweeper dragging behind her smoothing out the dust and erasing all
signs of the shell’s fall. It was very, very likely those faint tracks in the dust
would never have been detected by satellites, and if another crawler had time
to drive from the base to examine the area the operation would have failed by
then. But paying close attention to tiny details is a big part of what made
special operations troops 
special
,
and he was pleased to see a new and inexperienced team member having the
presence of mind to take care of small details no one might ever notice.

The team picked up the dead bodies of the
Bosphuraq, surprisingly heavy in the low gravity and awkward because their
knees bent the wrong way. Smythe was pleased to see Skippy had been entirely
correct about the accuracy of the shots, both aliens had been double-tapped
center mass in their chests, where their suits leaked less air that might be detected.
Because they had fallen backward, the blood seeping out before the suits sealed
the leaks was contained to the front of their suits, with none dripping down to
discolor the gray ground. A shot in the back or head would have caused
unacceptable leakage of air, blood or other fluids. Smythe knew the accuracy of
the shots was not entirely due to the advanced technology of their Kristang
weapons, and he planned to acknowledge the skill of the snipers. Later.
Recognition would come later, after the op was successfully completed and they
were enjoying gin and tonics aboard their pirate ship.

The clever device that entangled the treads had
released itself and fallen into Frey’s hands on a command from Skippy, Smythe
briefly joined her to inspect there was no damage to the treads before ordering
the team into the crawler.

 

With the team were three combots, one of them
utilized only to carry the bulky stealth field generator that would be used to
encompass the entire moonbase. That combot’s upper section had been removed,
leaving only the chassis and with the generator strapped onto it. Regardless of
whether the combot’s chassis carried a weapon package or some other burden,
they could not fit through the side airlock, so Skippy had ordered the crawler
to suck its cabin air back into reservoirs, then swung up the large back door.
The entire team, followed by the combots, stomped up the ramp, after which the
door closed and sealed. Skippy instructed the air pressure back to normal, then
increased it seven percent so it matched the pressure at one kilometer altitude
on Earth, for the health and comfort of the STAR team.

Katie Frey wrinkled her nose when she took off her
helmet inside the crawler, and not because it still itched. “Oh God. What is
that 
smell
?”

“You too?” Marine Raider Ed Burke asked, sticking
his tongue out like he was gagging.

“That,” Skippy announced happily, through the
microwormhole in Smythe’s pack, “is Eu De Toilette, in this case it should be
pronounced ‘toilet’. Otherwise known as the natural musky essence of the Bosphuraq.
They are known far and wide across the galaxy as a smelly species, what your
noses are objecting to is the scent glands they use to-”

“I am fairly certain none of us is going to die
from the smell,” Smythe remarked dryly.

“No, we will just wish we did,” Frey said under
her breath.

“How does the beer can know what we’re smelling in
here?” Roark asked. “Can you detect scents through that wormhole?”

“No, I cannot,” Skippy replied with a haughty
sniff. “I made a logical deduction. Referring to me as ‘the beer can’ is not
going to win you any points with-”

“Move now, argue later,” Smythe cut the chatter.
While keeping the asshole AI amused was an important part of any mission, it
could not be allowed the delay the operation. “Nunnally, Grudzien, you take
first shift as drivers, go forward and check out the cockpit. I want us moving
in,” he checked the display on his wrist, “two minutes. Skippy, the ruse is
still working?”

“It is working perfect-oh, of course. The base is
seeing an image of the two knuckleheads removing the junk stuck in the treads,
they are all proud that it is a quick and simple fix and are assuring the base
they will be moving again shortly. The base duty officer is telling them to
move their asses if it is so simple, it should be done by now. Those
knuckleheads would be in big trouble right now if, you know, they weren’t dead.
Hee hee, I am 
such
 an asshole
sometimes.”

Smythe looked around in dismay at the crawler’s
cabin, which was empty except for a streaked coating of gray moondust on every
surface. The Bosphuraq crews had not been fastidious about washing the dust off
the boots when the returned to the vehicle. Smythe’s team had dust clinging to
the boots and calves of their suits, they also had not used the decontamination
feature of the airlock, but his team had the very understandable reason of
being in rather a hurry. The crawler crew had no such excuse for their
sloppiness. “Skippy, will breathing this dust present a problem?”

“Long-term it would be a health hazard, although
if you are on this moon more than one day a Bosphuraq missile is more likely to
endanger your health. The dust will be an irritant to your throat, lungs and
especially your eyes, I suggest you breathe through your nose and use lubricant
eyedrops. If needed, the team can close their helmet faceplates and breathe
filtered air without depleting your suit oxygen reserves.”

“Breathing filtered air would also take care of
the odor,” Smythe nodded and swung his faceplate down, eyeclicking to instruct
the suit to pull cabin air through the filters. His own eyes had been watering,
and even he had become a bit dizzy from the unique stench of the Bosphuraq. He
nodded permission for the team to seal up their helmets. “It is rather, rank in
here,” he admitted. A good leader considered his team’s personal comfort an
important factor in combat readiness. “Drivers, move when you are ready.
Everyone, sit on the floor and brace yourselves, from what I saw of this
crawler, the ride could get bumpy.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTEEN

 

Everything went fine for several hours, nothing
even remotely interesting happened. The crawler traveled along its assigned
route, with Skippy managing the stealth field and sensor feeds from the crawler
so the alien base saw only what we wanted them to see. The crawler stopped at
the appropriate sensor stations for the appropriate length of time, with Skippy
making the stealth field radiate images of two Bosphuraq knuckleheads getting
out at each sensor station and do whatever they were supposed to do. He even made
the fake images screw up and waste time like the real crew did, causing the
base duty officer to yell at them to get moving.

Smythe began to have hope the mission would only
suffer one serious setback, when the screw-up fairy woke up from a three-day-weekend
drunk with a whopping hangover and decided she needed to visit her special kind
of magic on
 someone
.

The crawler had easily rolled down the hard rock
of mountain ridge, and the drivers had the throttle wide open to get the
vehicle across the floor of the valley below. Skippy had warned them that the
shallow valley had a deep accumulation of dust and it was standard procedure
for the Bosphuraq assigned to the moonbase to speed through the valley like a
snowmobile crossing a short length of open water. The dust in the valley was
deep enough to come halfway up the sides of the crawler and was not packed down
tightly in the low gravity, which was why the interior of the crawler was nearly
empty. After the first set of crawlers to travel that route had bogged down and
got stuck in the dust, the base commander had ordered all nonessential
equipment stripped out of the vehicles to lighten their load.

The STAR team’s crawler, moving at an alarming
speed that jostled the team trying to hold onto anything on the smooth floor of
the cabin, shot down the last foothill and splashed across the dust filling the
bottom of the valley, wallowing and sliding but making it across to begin
climbing up a ravine on the other side. That ravine lead up to a shelf where
the crawler would need to turn right to follow the crest of the ridge where the
last three sensor stations were located.

The trouble at first showed itself as nothing more
than a slight side-to-side wobble of the treads, requiring a slight adjustment
in the steering. Then the crawler began slowing down while climbing the
still-gentle rise, requiring slightly more throttle. Then more throttle was
needed and the craft began fishtailing and the treads slipped. Finally, no
amount of throttle could keep the crawler moving forward, because it had
stalled.

“Sir!” Nunnally shouted from the cockpit while
beside him, Grudzien tried alternating power from one tread to the other.
“We’re stuck!”

“Cut the throttle!” Smythe shouted, standing up
and moving toward the cockpit. “We’re just churning dust, we will overwhelm the
stealth field. Skippy, what is wrong?”

“Working on it. I do not understand, um, heh heh. This
is kind of funny. Well, not funny, exactly. Interesting. Um, it appears the
problem is mass, or 
weight
. Your team
is too heavy, Colonel Smythe. Your team, their suits, and the two stealth
generators, they are making the crawler sink into the dust that has slid down
the mountainsides here.”

“This ravine is also filled with dust?”

“Technically the word ‘ravine’ implies the terrain
feature was cut by water, as in the term ‘riverine’, which of course-”

“This is not an Oxford geology course,” Smythe’s
reserve was becoming depleted. “The crawler is not capable of climbing up this
hill?”

“Not with all of you aboard, no. The weight issue
is why the birdbrains stripped out the interiors of their crawlers and also
removed the side and roof racks. Which, hmm, is a fact I knew, and um, 
shmaybe
 I should have considered the
effect of loading your team and gear aboard. Well, heh heh, we can all laugh
about this some-”

“Beer can,” Smythe bit off each word, signifying
the end of his patience. “If you say that annoying ‘well, heh heh’ 
one
 more time-”

“Oh, damn it, now I need a new catchphrase? What a
pain, or, oooh! Hey, this is an opportunity for me to create a 
new
 catchphrase. Cool! How about
something like ‘
Shazam
’?”

“The,” Smythe balled up his fists, the powered
gloves prevented from crushing his own hands by the suit’s computer.
“Catchphrase is not the problem. How can we fix this?”

“Um, well, it would help if you all got lighter.”

That time, Smythe had to count down from eight
before he could speak rationally. How Colonel Bishop dealt with Skippy without
the extreme temptation to toss the beer can into a star, Smythe had no idea. “Assume
we cannot ignore the laws of physics, please.”

“Oh, in that case, um, let me think. It looks like
you have to get out and walk, until the crawler reaches about eighty percent of
the way up the ravine. To be certain, you will also need to remove the bodies
of Tweedledum and Tweedledumbass, because you will need to have two drivers
aboard and the dead guys are just, you know, 
dead
 weight. Hee hee, that was funny.”

“We can’t leave the bodies exposed on the
surface.”

“Nope. You will need to carry them with you.
Although, wow, that is a 
long
 way to
walk. Getting up to where the surface is relatively free of dust is over nine
kilometers. And, um, now that we know weight is a problem, there are two other
locations along the crawler’s patrol route where it is likely to slip in the
dust if your team is aboard. Wow, damn, you will be walking a really long way.
Sorry about that. Uh, shazam?”

Walking a significant distance was not a problem
because of the strain on his team’s muscles, it was a problem because there
were no spare powerpacks for the combots. If needed, he could strip powercells from
the two weapons platforms, to keep the chassis carrying the big stealth
generator moving. Smythe studied the map projected inside his faceplate.

“Hey, I don’t want to rush you, but, um, you do
need to hurry,” Skippy chided. “The base duty officer is already asking why the
crawler is not moving, I am running out of excuses. Also, while we sit here,
the treads are sinking deeper into the dust beneath you.”

Smythe impressed himself by remaining calm. The
whole operation had been bollixed from the start. “Do you have a suggestion how
we can-”

Frey rapped her armored gloves on the cabin wall
to get the team commander’s attention. “Colonel Smythe? The dust here is three
meters thick, according to the sensor under this thing.”

“Yes,” Smythe did not appreciate the interruption.
“The depth of the dust will become a problem if the crawler settles to the-”

“No Sir,” she shook her head. “I think the dust is
an 
opportunity
. Can we just bury the
dead guys here, under the dust?”

“Hmm,” Skippy mused. “That is actually a good
idea. Eventually, their remaining body heat will cause a detectible heat plume
on the surface of the dust, but by that time, you will either have taken
control of the moonbase or failed entirely. So, no downside!” He chuckled.

“Good thinking, Frey. That relieves two people
from carrying additional burdens, we still have the problem of the team and
combots making an unplanned march of- Skippy, where could we safely reboard the
crawler?”

“That spot is thirty eight kilometers farther
along the route, I am sorry about that.”

Thirty eight kilometers was too far for the
combots to march and still have power for the assault on the moonbase. They
were designed for short, violent actions, not as mechanical beasts of burden.
If they could- Smythe realized with a start there might be another show-stopper
of a problem. “The crater that surrounds the moonbase, dust there will not be a
problem for our approach? We can’t travel as quickly as the crawler, nor can we
let it go on ahead of the team, because the crawler is carrying our stealth
gear.”

“Dust in the crater is not a problem, because the
Bosphuraq built several roadways from the base to the lip of the crater. No,
the only problem is in these mountains. Landslides have caused thick layers of
dust to accumulate in what you call ravines.”

“Smythe?” Bishop interrupted Smythe’s dark
thoughts. “I don’t want to be a backseat driver, but from up here, I have a
different perspective. The crawler route is thirty eight kilometers, but
straight overland to the reboarding point is only eight klicks. You can climb
over this ridge here,” he passed the map to Smythe’s suit computer. “It’s too
steep for the crawler, but you should be able to make it, and the combots can
climb better than we can.”

“Give me a moment, Sir,” Smythe held up a finger
though the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
’s commander could not see him.
The map provided by Bishop projected a route up the side of the ravine near the
bottom where it was still shallow, then up and over a ridge too steep for the
crawler. He studied the map from a side profile, seeing several potential
trouble spots. “Skippy? You will be controlling the combots, can they make the
journey?”

“Hmm,” the beer can considered that notion. “The
two regular combots will not have any problem going over that ridge. But the
combot carrying the big stealth generator will need help in one, no, two short
sections of the route. You can use cables to winch it up. Hmm, the only
difficulty will be keeping your entire team under the coverage of the portable
stealth field, they can’t be strung out in a long line.”

“Skippy,” Bishop asked, “the 
portable
 stealth generator needs to go with the ground team, there
is no need to bring the big generator with them.” Smythe’s team had two stealth
field generators with them; a small unit that covered only his team or a
crawler, and a bigger unit that could temporarily envelop the entire moonbase.
“The only problem I see is that if the people walking overland use the portable
stealth generator, there won’t be a stealth field concealing the crawler. Can
the crawler use the big generator? The crawler is carrying the big generator
anyway.”

“No!” Skippy shouted. “Do 
not
 turn that big generator on until it is at the moonbase, it uses
way too much power. The crawler really doesn’t need a stealth field, Joe. The
last three sensor stations are located above where the crawler can access, so
crews do not get out of the crawler unless they need to make repairs to the
stations. All three of those stations are in perfect working order, so there is
no need for me to fake images of two Bosphuraq getting out and walking around.
The two drivers only need to keep the crawler’s transmitter turned off and
follow the route until you meet them on the other side of the ridge.”

“Good, then,” Bishop’s voice reflected the strain
of being forced to watch and wait while the STAR team carried out the mission. “Smythe,
I think that takes care of the immediate problem?”

“Understood and agreed. Colonel Bishop, that is an
excellent plan, thank you.” Smythe chided himself for not utilizing the
resources aboard the ship sooner. “I hope we have used up our quota of bad luck
for today. Team, we are getting out here, except for the drivers.”

 

Katie Frey was first to step off the back ramp,
and promptly and slowly fell feet-first into the dust, sinking toward the
bottom until her boots touched. Minerals in the dust and the static charge it
held partly blocked the faint signals from the crawler, and the signal strength
could not be boosted without being detected by the enemy.

Walking was impossible so she dropped to hands and
knees and crawled blindly, feeling her way upward to the side, until the
antenna atop her helmet was close enough to the surface to receive a signal. “I
am uninjured,” she reported, and moments later her helmet rose back into
vacuum. “Colonel Smythe,” she gently tapped dust off her helmet, “I think
people need to get out on their backs or bellies, and 
swim
 to the, sort of shore.”

Smythe did not like that idea. “Frey, we are
sending a cable to you, anchor it on a rock.”

One by one, the crew slid off the ramp, pulling themselves
hand over hand along the cable until they were all out of the dust pool, except
for Smythe. He popped the helmet seals of the two dead Bosphuraq and slid them
into the dust, watching them disappear much too slowly. Then there was the
problem of the three combots. “Skippy? You can get the combots to shore?”

“The two weapons carriers, yes. The one with the
stealth generator is a problem. It is going to sink like a stone. I can
probably control it at the bottom, but we need a backup.”

“Sir? I can walk back into the dust, get into
direct contact with the combot.” Frey volunteered.

Smythe accepted that Frey was their only dust-walking
expert. “Very well, wait for the bot to settle, don’t go in there unless I give
the order.”

The first two combots leapt athletically from the
ramp toward the ravine’s side, landing with their sensor crowns above the dust,
and Skippy barely needed to guide them splashing out of the dust. The last
combot could not be risked with a jump, so it gently stepped off the ramp and sank
rapidly. “Wait, wait,” Skippy cautioned as Katie set down her rifle, preparing
to walk down into the dust over her head. “It’s slow but it’s working. I don’t want
you in that dust unless it becomes absolutely necessary, your suit’s coolant
radiators won’t work under there and you could overheat. The dust may clog your
radiators, it has already affected your suit’s performance.”

As Smythe stood on the ramp, silently urging the
proceedings to move faster, Skippy did his best to move the combot. It stumbled
badly several times, coming close to tipping over, until its antenna emerged
from the surface, prompting silent cheers from the team. When it carefully
walked clear of the dust, Smythe clipped the cable to his belt and ordered the
team to pull him away from the crawler. “Right,” he declared as he attempted to
brush dust off the front of his suit. “Grudzien, Nunnally, get the crawler
moving. Team, step away from the dust.” It was good that Smythe gave that last
order, for the crawler’s treads churned up a rooster tail of dust before it
lurched forward. Making steady and controlled progress, the drivers slowly
increased speed as it climbed the ravine, until Skippy pulled the stealth field
back and a true image of the crawler was exposed to the satellites overhead. No
alarm was sounded, and the bodies of the two dead Bosphuraq remained firmly on
the bottom of the ravine, buried under deep dust. Smythe got his team moving, with
Skippy outlining the edges of the portable stealth field that protected the
marching column from prying eyes.

 

Last to leave the crawler while it was stuck in
the dust, Smythe was also last to reboard it at the rendezvous point. The
biggest problem his team had encountered along the way was boredom, they
reached the rendezvous point two hours before the crawler and had absolutely
nothing to do until that vehicle rolled close enough for Skippy to extend the
stealth field over it once again. Though only ninety minutes remained until
they were scheduled to drive the crawler into its garage at the moonbase, Smythe
ordered the team to take forty-minute powernaps in shifts. He knew the elite
warriors did not want to miss any action, he also knew they had long since
developed an ability to catch sleep whenever they could. Smythe, too, nodded off
when it was his turn, being jostled awake much too soon.

It 
was

much too soon, the clock in his faceplate showed only nine minutes passed since
he closed his eyes. A soldier was kneeling next to him, gently shaking Smythe’s
shoulder. “Sir, we have a problem.”

Smythe was instantly and fully awake. “What is
it?” He asked the people working to assemble the big stealth generator in the
cramped confines of the crawler’s cabin.

“I will not say ‘Well heh heh’ since that gets
your knickers in a twist,” Skippy announced. “However, this is a story you 
will
 look back on and laugh at later.
Um, if, you know, there is a later for you. It seems that, when the combot fell
off the back of the ramp into the dust, we lost part of the big stealth field
generator.”

“
Lost
?”

“It was there for sure when the combat got into
the crawler the first time, and it’s not there now, so it fell out somewhere
along the way. The most likely place we could have lost it is when the combot
was under the dust, because it nearly tipped over several times down there.”

“You just 
now

noticed it is missing?”

“
I
 did
not notice it is gone, the assembly team noticed. I am aboard the ship,
remember? Huuuuh,” he sighed. “You monkeys are 
so
 careless with your toys.”

“Your sensors cannot keep track of-”

“My sensors 
could

keep track of even tiny parts, though bandwidth through the microwormhole is
restricted. The reason I did not keep track of every single nit-picky little
detail is that I have a rather short attention span, in case you haven’t
noticed. Really, this is 
your
 fault
for relying on an absent-minded beer can to watch your vital equipment. What
were you thinking?” 

Smythe regretted that he could not even hit the
beer can with a hammer, since the 
Flying

Dutchman
 was safely far from the
moon.

“Colonel Smythe,” Skippy sighed again. “I am
disappointed, you should have given me a snappy retort.”

“I have your retort right here,” Smythe squeezed
the stock of his rifle. “Why don’t you come down here and I’ll show it to you?”

“Um, thank you, but being down there sounds
dangerous, especially around your team, so I will stay right here.”

“Do you have a suggestion for us?”

“Let me think. Are there any electronics stores
near you?”

 

Frey leaned to the Marine Raider next to her,
switching to a private channel. “Why isn’t the AI helping us?”

“That pilot Captain Reed told me about Skippy, she
was on that last really long mission,” Edward Burke explained. “I think that 
is
 Skippy helping.”

“Heaven help us.”

 

After several totally unhelpful suggestions from
the beer can, a three-way conversation ensued between Smythe, Skippy and
Bishop, with the STAR team listening intently. In Katie’s opinion, Skippy was
not even trying to help. “Skippy,” Bishop was clearly frustrated, “there must
be something we can do.”

“Something
 I

can do, you mean. You monkeys can’t even-”

“What is this dingus we lost? What does it do?”

“It’s a power regulator, as if that means anything
to you.”

“All it does is control the power flow?” Bishop’s
tone was, Frey thought, condescending. “Can’t 
you
 handle that function?”

“Through the microwormhole? Uh, 
no
, dumdum, of course not. Plus, you
know what happens when I try to regulate even my own power flow; I am not good
at it. My awesomeness would burn out the generator.”

“Skippy,” Smythe sought to bring focus back to the
discussion. “Is there something else here you can use to replace the missing component?”

“No, I am sorry, I already considered that,” the
AI was much more respectful of the SAS man. “There are power regulators in your
suits, in the combots and in the crawler. None of them are capable of being
useful in the stealth field generator. I am very sorry about this. Joe should
have requested that we bring along a spare power regulator.”

Frey expected Colonel Bishop to react to the
insult, because that is what she had witnessed the ship’s captain do before,
and because any normal person would react to being blamed. Instead, Bishop
laughed softly. “I 
did
 request you
bring a spare, you little shithead.”

“No you didn’t, dumdum, you- Oh, wait,” Skippy
hesitated. “I have learned not to argue with one of your whacky statements. What
truly bizarre idea are you considering this-”

“The away team has 
two
 stealth field generators, right?” Bishop interrupted, which
Katie thought was bad manners, but seemed to be the way guys talked. “Can we
use the power regulator from the portable stealth unit, in the big unit?”

“Um, I suppose we could do that,” Skippy responded
slowly. “Perhaps you have not been keeping up on current events, Joe, so I will
break it down Barney-style for you. We are using the portable stealth field
now-”

“I know that, you silicon moron. The team is now
on the road to the base, with no stops along the way. Is a stealth field really
necessary before the crawler gets to the base?”

“Um, hmmm. If absolutely nothing goes wrong, then
no. But, the universe seems to have a hard-on for screwing up this operation
today, so you should not count on nothing else going wrong, Joe.”

“Colonel Bishop?” Smythe asked. “I recommend we go
with your idea.”

“Smythe, I appreciate your support, but if this is
an ‘in for a penny in for a pound’ thing, then we need to consider
alternatives.”

“There 
is

no alternative, Sir. We are fully committed now. The crawler is too close to
the base for us to get out here.”

“That is not quite true, Smythe. I’ve been
thinking about that subject. You could stop the crawler, get out and walk
backwards along the track, using the portable stealth unit to conceal
yourselves. To buy time, Skippy could report the crawler broke down. The base
would send out another crawler, and we would need to explode your crawler
before the repair team arrived, but you would have a chance to get somewhere
the Falcon could pick you up.”

“Pardon me, Sir, but that is poppycock,” Smythe
insisted. “We did not come out here to save ourselves, we have a mission to
perform. Skippy, is there any other place we could possibly get a Maxolhx
dropship?”

“Not that I know of, and as you know, I know
pretty much everything,” the beer can did not add his usually smugness to the
remark.

“Colonel,” Smythe concluded, “my team is in
position and ready. We are not likely to get another opportunity. Request
permission to proceed.”

“Who dares wins, Smythe?”

“Daring acts are the only hope we have left, Sir.”

“You are the commander on the scene,” Bishop said
with a wistful sigh. “I am not going to second-guess you. Good luck, Colonel
Smythe. Bishop out.”

Smythe knew the commander did not need to say
‘Bishop out’, he had done that to assure the SAS man that no one was looking
over his shoulder. Having somewhat unexpectedly gotten the freedom of action he
requested, Jeremy Smythe did not know exactly what to do next. “Right,” he said
as a filler while he thought. “Skippy, can you remove the power regulator from
the portable unit, or do you need us to assist?”

“A combot can do most of the task, however I will
need humans for the delicate work. I will let you know when I need you.” One of
the combots activated, moving carefully in the cramped crawler cabin.

“Now,” Smythe turned to address his team, who were
looking rather shell-shocked, and the fighting had not yet begun. “If anyone
knows how we could screw this up even worse than we have already, please let me
know.” That remark drew a couple tight grins. “That was not a joke,” he
scowled. “I want to know of anything we may have forgotten that could trip us
up.”

 

“That’s it,” Skippy announced with rather less
enthusiasm than Smythe desired. “The power regulator is attached to the big
stealth unit, and phase one testing is complete and successful.”

“How many testing phases are there?”

“Well, three. The inspection of individual
components is phase one. Two is the initial power-up, and as you might have
guessed, phase three is activation.”

“When can you perform the remaining tests?”

“Well, heh heh, I can’t do 
that
 until we are inside the crawler garage.”

“You idiot beer can! We won’t know if the bloody
thing works until we need it?”

“Unfortunately, yes. It is kind of a sticky
situation, because if it fails at that point, we will not have time to fix it
before the entire base security team arrives to blast your team into tiny
pieces. Wait!” The AI implored. “This is a rare case when I am totally not
screwing with you monkeys. To test the regulator requires sending power through
the system, and the initial power feed causes a spike the moonbase would
detect, even I can’t completely mask the effect. I would only make it worse if
I tried to suppress the power spike.”

Smythe mentally ran through a list of curse words
and decided none of his inventory was sufficient for the occasion. “Go on,
please.”

If Skippy was disappointed that he hadn’t provoked
a reaction, he kept it to himself. “There is no reason to expect the new power
regulator will not work properly, however that component has never been used on
such a large stealth generator, so I will not know for certain that it will
function properly. The real test is when we activate the stealth field at max
power; if the regulator is going to fail, that’s when the trouble will bite you
in the ass. I did warn Joe that covering the entire base with one stealth
generator is a big strain on the unit you were able to bring. I mean, to make
the generator small and light enough so your team could transport it, I had to
remove a lot of redundant systems and slap the thing together with duct tape.
Don’t worry, it should work. I think. Never done this before, you understand.”

Smythe’s fists clenched in the powered gloves.
“When I asked if anyone could think how we could possibly screw this up any
worse-”

“Hey! It’s not 
my

fault, I warned you against this whole lunatic scheme. Besides, a possibly
malfunctioning stealth field is not your biggest problem right now.”

“It’s 
not
?”

“Nope. Not even close. I just learned that when
you arrive at the crawler garage, the chief engineer will be there to inspect
the crawler for any damage, and the officer in charge of the two knuckleheads
who are supposed to be driving this thing will also be there to greet them and
probably yell at them again. As a further bit of bad luck, the delays we
encountered will have us arriving just before two other crawlers are scheduled
to leave the garage. All this means the garage section of the base will have a
lot more people than normal. Like, normally the garage only has two people on
staff. Now I expect twelve or more.”

Smythe was not overly concerned about the latest
change of plans. Additional crawler crews and mechanics in the garage section
of the base would not pose a significant risk to his team and, he considered,
it might actually be quite convenient to have so many of the moonbase personnel
in one location. None of the Bosphuraq there were likely to be armed or wearing
any kind of armor protection, they would only be additional soft targets for
his heavily-armed and armor-suited team. Taking out a large number of
opposition early would save the STAR team from having to track them down in isolated
nooks and crannies of the base later. “More people in the garage area will not
be a problem. We will need to take them out immediately, before we can go
through those pressure doors and up two levels to where we need to plug you
into the base computer.”

“Yeah, well, heh 
heh
, this is kind of ironic-”

“Bloody hell,” Smythe groaned.

“The base has been having issues with blown
circuits, so the commander has recently ordered that entire wing to power down
until the problem can be fixed. The garage on the end of the wing has its own
power source, but the original point where you were supposed to plug in my
access device, no longer has a connection to the main computer.”

“Show me a schematic,” Smythe asked, weariness
evident in his voice. “Where 
can
 we
plug this thing in?”

“The closest point is 
here
,” an icon began blinking in Smythe’s faceplate.

“No good,” the SAS commando shook his head.
“Getting there will require cutting through or blowing two sets of blast
doors.”

“Yeah, that’s what I thought. Ok, the closest
other option is way over in the wing to the right of the crawler garage.
Problem is, getting there requires going halfway to the base core, then back
out.”

“No,” Smythe observed after a moment of careful
study. “It does not.”

“Um, it doesn’t?” Skippy was puzzled. “Are you
reading the map properly?”

“I am. It looks to me like we could cross the
ground between the wings, and go in, probably through this airlock.”

“Oooh, that is risky.”

“This whole bloody op is risky,” Smythe walked
forward, stepping between people sitting on the deck, to look out through the
front windscreen, if it could be called that on an airless world. The crawler
garage was no more than two kilometers away, a fact he could have determined in
his helmet faceplate’s display. Somehow seeing the closeness of the base made
the situation more real to him. Whatever the team was going to do, they needed
to act quickly. Time. He needed more time. “Skippy, we are going to slow down,”
he tapped Grudzien on the shoulder and the man nodded. “Tell the base the
crawler treads are experiencing a malfunction. Tell them whatever you like, but
do not make the problem serious enough that the duty officer sends another
crawler out to meet us, understood?”

The crawler slowed as the two drivers pulled back
on the throttles, making Smythe stutter-step and hold onto the cockpit
bulkhead. To sell the ruse of a partial tread malfunction, the drivers had the
crawler surge and lurch forward, making a rough ride for the occupants. “Understood
what I am supposed to do,” Skippy was peeved, “I do not understand 
why
.”

“I need more time to consider how to get a team
across the gap to the other wing, where we need to plug you in,” Smythe
explained.

“Oh, Gotcha. Ok, the duty officer is unhappy, he 
really
 hates those two dead guys, maybe
we did them a favor by killing them quickly. I’m telling him the crawler can
make it back to the garage, we are moving slowly to prevent causing further
damage.”

 

While Smythe examined a schematic of the base, Frey
leaned toward Captain Poole, touching helmets. “Captain, Skippy is talking to
the Bosphuraq? I read something in the briefing material that he is unable to
speak with species capable of interstellar flight?”

Lauren, taken aback by the unexpected question,
turned to look in the other woman’s faceplate. “Skippy talks to higher species
frequently, but they don’t know they are talking with an Elder AI. Right now,
the base duty officer thinks he is speaking with the two crawler drivers we
took out. The restriction on Skippy is that he can’t 
reveal
 himself to star-faring species. If he is translating for us,
or like now he is pretending to be someone else, his programming doesn’t
interfere.”

“Ah. Sorry, I didn’t understand.”

“It’s Ok, better to ask than not know. The new
improved Skippy, um, you know what happened to us in the Roach Motel?” Frey
nodded so Poole continued. “He has been able to release or get around some of
the original restrictions, like now he can explain some higher technology with
us, physics concepts, advanced math, that sort of thing. We hope-”

“Poole,” Smythe called, summoning the Ranger with
a gesture.

Lauren pushed herself away from the crawler
cabin’s wall and walked the five steps forward to confer with the team
commander, grateful for the suit’s stabilizers keeping her upright. The drivers
might have been overselling the supposedly malfunctioning treads, for with
every full revolution of the treads, the crawler lurched. “Sir?”

Smythe didn’t waste words. “There has been another
change of plans. You will be leading the team to take the weapons control
center.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER FOURTEEN

 

The balky crawler paused on the pad in front of
the big door, coming to a full stop and going through a series of safety checks
before entering the garage. In the garage control center, the chief engineer swore
when the exterior cameras monitoring the entire garage end of the wing
glitched, froze, glitched again and then failed. Those damned circuit failures,
the engineer cursed to himself, they have now somehow affected the independent
power supply of the garages. He made a mental note to add that to the long list
of tasks his overworked team needed to fix.

After a brief discussion, the base duty officer
gave permission to open the garage door even though external sensors had failed
in that area. After all, they had seen the crawler halted in front of the door,
and communication with the two crewmembers assured they were waiting permission
to engage the drive again. When the door began sliding upward, there was
another damned glitch! The door shuddered, stopped, and had to be brought back
down to restart the procedure. Between the cameras being out and the door
taking much too long to open, no one inside the base saw two figures in
Kristang powered armor leap out of the crawler’s side door and race around the
end of the garage wing. By the time the garage door resumed its now-smooth
upward movement, the crawler’s side door was shut, and no one outside the
crawler could have known the door was unlatched and ready to swing aside.

When permission was given for the crawler to enter
the garage, it did so painfully slow, irritating the waiting personnel except
for the chief mechanic, who appreciated that the drivers were taking care not
to make the damage worse.

Although, the engineer thought to himself, that
was odd. Even in an enhanced view from the garage bay’s internal cameras, the
treads did not have any visible damage, none at all. For the crawler to be
moving so unsteadily, the damage must be inside the drive mechanism, which was
going to be a huge pain in the ass to fix. Replacing treads, even the entire
tread assembly, was a relatively quick and simple job, but getting access to
the drive unit required lifting the vehicle off its treads and removing covers
across the entire bottom of the crawler. The vehicle would be out of service
for two full days. Suddenly, the chief mechanic’s day had gotten much worse.

 

“Do it, Skippy,” Captain Poole urged. The crawler
had ground to a halt inside the garage bay, and the big outer door was sliding
down. A maintenance team would be walking through the pressure door at the far
end, and it would look suspicious if the two dead former drivers did not open
the crawler’s side door and step out to report.

“Doing it,” the beer can’s voice came through her
helmet speakers, the sound slightly muffled as he had to speak through the
moonbase’s comm system. “It would be easier if your end of the microwormhole
were still there in the crawler with you.”

“You know why Colonel Smythe had to take the
wormhole with him,” Poole snapped. “Can you do it or not?”

“Yes, yes, it looks good. Remember, there will be
a surge when I start the power flow. A big surge, and I can’t conceal it.”

“I don’t care if you can conceal it, so long as
you can 
explain
 it to the
birdbrains.”

“Doing my best here.”

 

The chief engineer was about to step away from his
console when it lit up from a power spike. “What was that?” He demanded of the
base control center. Damn it. He had enough problems without some idiot trying
to send power through a system that was cut off. “This wing is powered down, it
wasn’t anything 
my
 team did.”

“Hold one,” a harried voice responded from the
control center. The team there had also noticed the power spike also, and a
quick check determined the power had not come from any system connected to the
base’s infrastructure. The duty officer was about to order a full diagnostic
plus a security alert, when a message was received from the research base on
the planet below.

“Er,” the voice from the control center reported.
“Looks like the research facility conducted a test that was more successful
than they expected.”

That astonished the mechanic. “A test on the
planet caused a power spike up 
here
?
Did the planet explode?”

“The planet is intact,” the officer said with
irritation. “You will need to inspect critical systems for damage, starting
with the main weapons.”

Of course I will, the engineer groaned. First,
though, he was going to have a little chat with some asshole down on the
planet. Except, no he wasn’t, because the damned comm system was down. What
else could go wrong?

The chief engineer had no way of knowing that the
comm system itself was in perfect working order, the problem was that the
entire base was encased in a powerful stealth field which bounced back all
outgoing signals, and caused incoming signals to wrap around and be absorbed by
the field.

 

While the crew of the moonbase worried about the
effect of the power surge coming from the planet, sensors on the planet and
both orbiting battlestations had also noticed a power spike coming from the
moonbase, and all three facilities contacted the moonbase to find out what was
going on. The circuit failures that had thrown Colonel Smythe’s careful plan
out the window provided a convenient explanation, an explanation that was
almost 
too
 convenient. The problem
was that Skippy thought using the circuit failures was way too obvious and
boring and dull, and he could come up with a 
way
 more entertaining and clever explanation that would finally
show that smug jerkface Joe Bishop that monkeys are not the only beings in the
galaxy able to dream up clever ideas.

Thus, the reply from the moonbase was delayed for
an amount of time barely noticed by the meatsack Bosphuraq, but long enough to
cause alarm in the AIs running the planetary base and the two battlestations.
The delay was caused by Skippy arguing with that killjoy pain-in-the-
ass
 Nagatha about whether he should just
get 
on
 with it and explain the power
spike by using the circuit failures or the original excuse of a reactor problem
or 
anything
 so long as the beer can got
his figurative ass in gear 
right now

before his insufferable arrogance doomed the whole operation.

The argument raged for nearly two nanoseconds
before the Smartest Being in the Galaxy huffed that, after all, he had better
things to do than argue with an overgrown communications submind that 
he
 created. A reply was sent from the
moonbase, with none of the three recipients aware they were talking with a beer
can aboard a pirate starship hiding behind the moon. One of the battlestation
AIs, who was not convinced that cascading circuit failures could cause a power
spike of the type detected, prodded the station commander to investigate the
incident, and the station commander announced she was sending a dropship over
to the moon. Rather than being insulted, the moonbase duty officer replied they
actually would appreciate help diagnosing the problem, so could the station
include an engineering team aboard the dropship? Skippy did not bother
informing anyone on the STAR team that a dropship would be coming to the moon,
figuring the operation would be over one way or another by the time the
dropship was ready for launch. If not, one puny dropship would not make a
difference anyway, right?

 

The garage bay was pumped full of air again, which
made Lauren Poole wonder if having the air filtered made any difference to the
pungent smell of any place occupied by the Bosphuraq. That stray thought
flashed fleetingly through her mind as she watched the inner pressure door open
and three Bosphuraq technicians stroll out, their seemingly backward-bent legs
making them awkward to her view. “On my signal,” she took a calming breath,
“three, two, one-”

 

The chief engineer’s most frequent complaint was
that he was too often left out of the loop, or informed too late after everyone
else already was aware of a problem. One technician had made a habit of
delaying reports about problems, because he was always sure he could fix the
issue before it needed to be brought to the chief engineer’s attention. After
the third time the chief engineer heard about an issue through the base
commander asking when the engineering team was going to fix something, that
technician had been reassigned to the most awful duty station in Bosphuraq
territory, and since then, incident reporting had improved measurably.

That day, the chief engineer could not complain
about being the last to know, because he was first to receive notice of an
alien assault. That notice came in the form of an explosive-tipped round
penetrating his breastbone and plunging another two centimeters into his chest
cavity before detonating, ripping his torso nearly in half.

In perspective, perhaps being first to know about
the alien assault was not such a good thing.

 

“Go go go!” Poole whispered, knowing her orders
would be magnified by the team’s helmet speakers, and knowing that the effort
of shouting might move her head and throw off her aim. Her first shot, leaving
the muzzle of her superb Kristang rifle while she was on one knee in the
airlock while the crawler’s side door was still sliding open, had taken out her
first target, a scowling enemy officer behind glass windows in a gallery
overlooking the garage bay. A useful feature of the rifle was that, almost
without Poole having to do anything, it sent a targeting pulse combination of laser
beam and particle beam to assess distance to, and any obstructions between, the
rifle and the designated target. Return pulses indicated the target was behind
a clear composite material, so the rifle switched to a mode the STAR team
called ‘double-tap penetration’. Two rounds left the muzzle when Poole
depressed the trigger, the first engaging its light-armor penetrating mode,
burning a hole through the clear composite for the explosive-tipped killshot
only ten centimeters behind along the same flightpath. Technically, the first
notice received by the chief engineer was in the form of hot droplets of plasma
and melted composite splattering his chest, but that hot pain signal had not enough
time to reach his brain before the second round impacted and exploded and he
ceased to exist. So, close enough, and it’s not like that Bosphuraq cared about
the particulars of his death anyway.

Rising smoothly from one knee to a standing
position without taking a step forward or taking her eyes off her targets,
Poole remained in the side doorway as the team rushed past her and down onto
the garage bay floor. Even before the door opened, she had selected targets in
sequence, using the crawler’s exterior sensors to preprogram her rifle.
  
She swung the rifle right to left, firing
above the heads of the racing STAR team and taking out six targets in four
seconds. Her last action before hopping out of the crawler to join her team was
to activate the under-mounted rocket launcher by flicking her right pinky finger,
sending a rocket set to fragmentation mode through the shattered composite into
the gallery above the garage bay. On the way into the garage, the crawler’s
sensors had detected additional people in the gallery, but they were out of her
line of sight and had escaped the tender loving care of rifle rounds. The
rocket made sure the unseen aliens in the back of the gallery, who were
scrambling toward the rear door, did not feel left out of the action. After the
nosecone of the rocket crossed the plane where the composite windows had been,
its laser sensor created a three-dimensional map of the gallery, detecting
three moving objects who were approximately the size and shape of adult
Bosphuraq. Accordingly, after traveling forward another two meters for an optimal
spread pattern, the rocket detonated its warhead, sending hot razor-sharp
fragments in a one hundred thirty degree cone and slicing the three unprotected
aliens into squishy bits.

“Good,” Poole acknowledged the rocket’s final
report. Sensors built into the rocket observed and recorded the deaths of the
three fleeing targets, and relayed that data back to Poole’s suit, which
happily showed her a summary in the bottom left of the display. Six confirmed
kills from rifle shots, plus three from the rocket, was nine less enemy to
worry about.

That left only, if Skippy’s count could be trusted,
sixty eight enemy to be dealt with inside the moonbase. Lauren Poole certainly
did 
not
 trust the beer can’s official
count, because the AI was likely to have absent-mindedly lost track while he
was counting, or just lost interest halfway through the count and decided that
fudging the number was good enough for monkeys, or he knew the real count and
decided to amuse himself by screwing with the STAR team. All Lauren knew for
sure was the moonbase was a target-rich environment and her team needed to kill
anyone along the way to their objective, then possibly clear the base room by
room to hunt down and kill or disable any survivors.

Her team was already ahead of her, the last person
disappearing through the pressure door, as she sprinted to catch up. Her helmet
display showed her the position and status of each team member and she could
toggle between views from their helmet cameras and suit sensors, so she could
have lead the team while she remained inside the crawler. With her team
consisting of only two other soldiers, she represented one-third of the team’s
combat power- No, that was not quite true. Her team also included one of the
two weapon-equipped Thuranin combots, and that machine by itself had more
firepower than three soldiers, even three soldiers wearing Kristang powered
armor suits.

The Bosphuraq inside the base were not a major
concern because ironically, the massive firepower of the facility had left the
birdbrains vulnerable to the only type of attack that could actually threaten
them; an enemy force gaining access to the base from the ground. The strong
layers of energy shields, plus the offensive weapons installed under the moon’s
surface, rendered the base practically invulnerable to attack from above. Enemy
ships seeking to bombard the moonbase would be sliced in half by the base’s
weapons, and anything sneaking up on the base by hugging the surface would be
easily targeted by the two orbiting battlestations, or by the weapons of the
research base on the planet’s surface. With the four facilities supporting each
other, they could hold off any attack until the Bosphuraq fleet could be
summoned. All the crews needed to do was hunker down behind their powerful
energy shields and wait for the enemy to decide they had taken enough
punishment. 

That unimaginative thinking is why the moonbase
had only eight people on the security team, and why most of the personnel did
not carry or even have access to infantry weapons. An assault on the moonbase
was considered unlikely in the extreme, for the only valuable asset in the star
system was the atomic-compression research base down on the planet. Any ground
assault against the moonbase would come only after the base’s defenses had been
destroyed by bombardment, and with the base’s weapons offline, what would be
the point of risking soldiers to pick through the rubble? The prevailing
thought was the base would never, 
could

never, be attacked from the ground because with the base fully active, no enemy
ground force could get through the sensor network that extended far from the
base in every direction. Regular testing assured the Bosphuraq that their
sensor network could detect even a stealthed object the size of a small missile
before it even entered orbit around the moon.

And that is why the base security team had a high
turnover of personnel, no one wanted such dull duty with no chance of action or
opportunity to distinguish themselves. According to records accessed by an
arrogant beer can, the security team that had an authorized strength of eight,
was only staffed with five Bospuraq at the time the STAR team entered the
garage, and one of those five was combat-ineffective while being treated for a
broken leg. The base’s robotic defenders, generally heavier and larger than the
STAR team’s Thuranin combots that were designed for use aboard the confines of
a starship, were according to official records a formidable force. In reality, most
aspects of the moonbase and the two orbiting battlestations had been
constructed quickly and cheaply, because the Bosphuraq military had little
confidence in their scientists’ ability to make atomic-compression devices in
useful quantities. Therefore, other than the truly powerful defensive energy
shields and weapons, the moonbase was built of second-hand and second-rate
materials, that is why electrical circuits kept failing and why the chief
engineer had to prioritize the efforts of his maintenance team. Shields and
weapons and other systems the base commander directly engaged with got
priority. Combat robots, which were nothing but useless, showy toys in the
opinion of the chief engineer, went to the bottom of the priority list. When
the base commander insisted on a security drill, the security leader knew to
select the only four functioning combots, the others all having failed due to
lack of maintenance or having been stripped of parts to keep four units ready.
On rare occasions when the base commander looked in the armories where the
combots were stored, he saw shiny and lethal weapons that would protect his
base.

He had not seen the shiny things actually moving.

 

The STAR team did not know the status of the
enemy’s killbots when they entered the base, so they had to assume they might
be facing eighteen killing machines rather than four. After Skippy gained
access to the base’s main computer, he could deactivate the enemy killbots or
at least sever them from the control circuit and render them useless. Until the
beer can could work his magic, the humans and even their own combots would be
vulnerable, so the routes the teams took to their objectives were planned to
avoid going past armories where enemy killbots were stored, and to avoid killing
zones where the teams could be pinned down. Speed meant everything, speed was
life. Nothing could be allowed to stop or slow down the two teams, and the Pirates
would hold their combots in reserve for use against the robotic killing
machines of the Bosphuraq.

Poole was already unhappy about Smythe and Frey
jumping out of the crawler before it entered the garage, and to maintain
communications secrecy she had not heard from either of them since they
disappeared around the end of the garage wing. They could be alive, they could
be dead, but one thing Poole was certain of was that splitting an already small
force went against the principle of concentration of force, not that there was
anything she could do about it right then.

Racing through the pressure door, her right
shoulder glanced off the wall there in a move calculated by her suit as the
best way to turn the next corner. Having a suit that anticipated her needs and
acted without her input or permission could be useful, it could also be
dangerous. Skippy had enhanced the computer of her suit so it learned the
particular biomechanics of her movements and knew how she moved in different
situations, able to switch its power-assist from an easy
Fuzzy-Slippers-On-The-Couch mode to Full-Panic mode when needed. Poole might
have described the current operating mode as High-Speed, grateful for the ability
of the suit’s smart brain to keep her upright and moving along the pre-selected
route while her own meatsack brain was busy with more important matters like
aiming her rifle. Nunnally and Rowe had each taken their three-person teams to
the left and were no longer in her line of sight. Ahead of her was her team,
with the combot taking up the rear. Someone had splattered a birdbrain all over
a wall and parts of the body were making the floor slippery, her suit took care
of keeping her footing as she leaned to the left to squeeze by the combot.
Movement in a hallway to the right caught her eye and she reacted, swinging her
rifle while her left pinky finger selected a three-round burst mode without her
even thinking about it. The threat was a Bosphuraq wearing the robins-egg-blue
coveralls of a maintenance technician. The bird-like alien’s mouth and eyes
were wide open in fear, if its body language was anything like a human, and it
held a small cylinder-like thing in both hands, bringing the device up toward
Poole. The thing could have been an oddly-bulbous and short rifle, it could
have been a rocket launcher, it could have been a fire extinguisher, it could
even have been a Bosphuraq sex toy for all Poole cared, she wasn’t waiting to
satisfy her nonexistent curiosity. Curiosity killed the cat, but a three-round
burst killed the alien and snapped the device in half, sending it spinning back
down the hallway in a showering spray of white foam.

Huh, some part of her brain thought, so it 
was
 a fire extinguisher.

Unless it was a sex toy, in which case she would
rather not know.

“On your left,” she announced to the combot though
the words were not necessary, the thing had sensed her intention and moved to
the right to give her room to run by. Once past the hulking machine that stomped
along dutifully behind her, she took up position just off the right shoulder of
Roark, with Burke three meters ahead in a cover formation. The three were
racing along a hallway, ducking slightly to avoid cracking their heads on doors
that had tried to slide down to seal the invaders from the main part of the
base, doors that had suffered mysterious glitches that jammed them only
slightly down from their normal recessed position. Inside her helmet, Poole
smiled without realizing, pleased to see that whatever the fate of Smythe and Frey,
the beer can had been able to interfere with the moonbase’s power systems.

Burke in the lead sprinted at nowhere close to the
suit’s full speed, as the hallway jogged left then right at odd places,
preventing a full-on sprint. Twice he fired his rifle and twice Lauren saw
kills registered, she also noted he briefly aimed his rifle at a Bosphuraq who
was cowering in terror on the floor of a side hallway, but let the poor
creature live, as he had more important things to worry about and he would have
had to skid to slow enough to bring his rifle to bear on target before he went
by.

With regret and advanced notice, Lauren had her
rifle ready as she passed that side hallway, sending two rounds into the
terrified alien. She had an afterimage of the bird-like creature’s head being
separated from its body, then she had to concentrate on swerving around a bend
in the hallway in front of her. The ghostly schematic projected inside her
faceplate showed they had traveled two-thirds of the way to the core of the
base where the control center was located, and the floor began to slope
downward as expected. The point of greatest danger was just ahead, where a side
hallway connected to the section of the base that housed the security team. In
the original plan, Skippy was supposed to have established full control of the
base computer before the team attempted to breach the core of the underground
facility, but Poole had heard nothing from Smythe or the beer can, and the
original plan had been shot so full of holes it no longer mattered what the
team had optimistically dreamed about aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
 so long ago. Her job was to lead two soldiers and
an advanced alien combat robot to seize the base control center, before the
Bosphuraq could do something like launch a missile that would soar above the
stealth field and alert the planet and battlestations that something was very
wrong on the moon. That was her job and she was going to do it whether the
unreliable beer can could help or not.

Even in the original plan, the already small STAR
team had been split into three units, with Poole taking the two Marine Raiders
with her to cover for Smythe and Frey on their mission to plug the beer can’s
presence into the moonbase computer. The three Delta Force soldiers were
operating as a team to avoid communication issues, they were tasked with
stopping launch of fighters or dropships from the east hangar bay, while
Nunnally, Grudzien and Kloos were assigned to the west hangar bay. Poole
appreciated that her team were all Americans and her teammates were Marine
raiders who had served together. Nunnally, with a Polish and a German soldier,
had perhaps the most potential for fatal miscommunications, but given the
international nature of the renegade STAR team, that could not be helped.

She was grateful that the two Marine Raiders on
her team knew each other and knew each other’s tactics and worked well
together. She would have preferred they 
not

be named ‘Burke’ and ‘Roark’ because she had to speak their names carefully so
one didn’t think she was addressing the other.

Burke put on a burst of speed as he approached the
side hallway, so he could clear the gap and provide fire support from the other
side if needed. If the original plan had still been in effect, he would have
had advanced warning of any threats through Skippy’s control of the base
computer forcing that alien machine to feed internal sensor data to his Kristang
suit computer. Instead, Burke had no idea what threat might be in the hallway ahead
to the right. The fear of uncertainty, plus the hallway ahead being straight
and wide for fifty meters without obstructions, allowed him to kick the suit’s
motors up into what the STAR team designated as 
Chased-By-A-Bear
 mode and he surged so fast his poor human vision
had trouble keeping up.

 

Behind Burke, Poole increased her own speed until
she was running shoulder to shoulder with Roark, wary that if the enemy were in
the hallway to the right, they would be alerted by Burke’s passage and looking
out for attackers following him. Burke ran into the gap and was halfway across
when he was struck from the right by an object that glanced off his hip,
sending him tumbling and skidding out of control. “STOP!” Poole shouted and her
suit obeyed, Roark’s suit beside her doing the same. When the suit computers
determined the boots alone could not halt forward progress before the danger
zone, each suit fired a sort of harpoon backward out of the waistbelt, the
harpoon’s point deflecting off the floor but deploying sticky nanofibers that
adhered to the floor, holding the harpoon in place and jerking both soldiers to
a stop on the end of the cable attached to their waist belts. Lauren Poole
teetered on her toes, leaning so her helmet came close to the edge of the
intersecting hallway, then the cable retracted to pull her backward. “Retract,”
she ordered and both harpoons released their grips on the floor, being reeled
back into their storage pack for later use. “Burke, you OK?”

“Fine,” Burke grunted while bent over on hands and
knees, his shaky voice sounding anything but fine. His rifle had been torn from
his grip by the impact of crashing into the floor, the gecko-like material
could have hung onto the weapon despite the violent action but the suit’s
computer had scanned the hallway ahead, calculated how far it would and should
tumble to protect its wearer, and determined the best option was to let go of
the rifle. To avoid loss of the weapon, it was attached by a thin nanofiber
tether to the right forearm of the suit, and Poole could see the tether already
pulling the rifle back toward Burke as that soldier took a moment to regain
situational awareness, which is a polite way of saying he barely knew 
who
 he was, forget about where he was.
In her faceplate display, Lauren took in two vital pieces of information while
ignoring the detailed data. Simple green indicators told her that neither Burke
nor his armored suit had sustained serious or even significant damage from the
enemy fire, so she was free to focus on the overall situation which was bad,
very bad. “Roark, get the combot up here.”

“On it,” Roark’s reply was not needed as the
hulking machine, its weapons deployed and the energy shield crackling, was already
creeping past Poole. She flattened against the wall to let the combat robot
squeeze past her, then stepped in front of Roark to cover the man who was
somewhat vulnerable as he concentrated on guiding the combot. Lauren had
trained as a combot driver and it could be exhilarating to control such
destructive power, it was also often too easy to get caught up in the combot’s
senses and forget the need to care for and move the driver’s own body,
especially when the machine was in battle. “Going for recon,” Roark reported as
he used a finger to extend one on of the combot’s creepy tentacle-like probes
around the corner to get a view of the side hallway. “Looks like-”

Whatever Roark was going to say was lost as both
he and Poole were blown backward and the combot was slammed against, into and then
partly through the far wall. Poole had a snapshot impression of two or possibly
three alien killbots in the adjacent hallway, with several Bosphuraq behind.
Only one of the enemy was wearing an armored suit, she was sure of that because
she had seen the bird-like beaks of their bare faces. She was still spinning
and sliding backwards on her ass, her body going limp to protect her delicate
muscles and tendons as she had been trained, trusting the suit’s computer to
know when best to bring her to a stop so she could get back into action. While
still tumbling, she studied a replay of the incident on the right side of the
display, her suit anticipating the information she most likely needed
immediately. A small part of her brain marveled again at the incredible
technology of Kristang armored mech suits. The truly amazing functions of the
suit computer had been added by Skippy after he erased the original crappy
operating system and worked his magic on what he had said was seriously,
pathetically, hopelessly inadequate processing power and storage capacity. If
the suit computer ran on something better than what Skippy described as a
poorly-assembled set of 1930s vacuum tubes, he might be able to make the suits
do truly incredible things, but, given the severe and 
totally
 unfair constraints he worked under, what could he do? The
answer, Poole firmly believed, was as close to magic as she was ever likely to
get. While she reviewed sensor data of the incident on the right half of the
display and verified that Burke and the combot were still capable of effective
operation, the suit halted its slide and flipped lightly upright to land her on
her feet, automatically using reduced force in the moon’s lower gravity.

“Oh shit,” Poole did not know if she had said that
aloud. She now knew what had happened: the enemy detected their combot’s
flexible recon probe when it peeked around the corner, and the enemy was not
stupid. Their own killbot machines had instantly determined the probe had to be
attached to something hostile and dangerous and either on their own or with
their master’s hasty permission, decided that firing right through the base’s
internal structure was the best way to deal with the threat. What had blown the
STAR team’s combot into the far wall and knocked Lauren and Roark backwards was
a spread of lasers cutting a circular hole through the walls, followed closely
by a mix of armor-piercing and explosive-tipped rounds that her suit analyzed
as being twelve point three caliber, as if she needed that info. Finally, at
least two and possibly three rockets had struck the energy shield of her combot
and penetrated that protection to strike the machine directly.

Her own analysis of the situation was her team was
facing two or more enemy killing machines that were larger and more heavily
armed and armored than the Thuranin combot with her, plus an unknown number of
enemy soldiers, at least one of whom wore powered armor. She had three shaken-up
though uninjured humans, and a combot that was extricating itself from being
partly embedded in a wall. Blinking yellow icons told her the combot had
non-fatal damage, the ‘fatal’ part was that if the machine was knocked out of
action, her team would be facing overwhelming force with inadequate firepower.

What should she do?

Step One; prioritize the mission. “Burke,” she
ordered, “get to the control center and secure it. Go now now now.”

Burke may not have liked the order to split the
team’s combat power 
again
, and he
unquestionably did not like leaving two people behind to battle the enemy, he
also did not question the order. His display had shown him the same data Poole
used to make her decision, plus he had watched the incident and could see the
still-smoking holes in the interior wall. Burke turned to run, feeling through
his boots the vibrations of something, or some
things
, big and heavy stomping down the side hallway.

Step Two; call for help? No, the other teams could
see her situation through the team’s tactical link, and she knew Smythe was
monitoring her, although his suit was not transmitting any data so his position
could remain concealed. Through the taclink she could see Nunnally’s team was
also fully engaged and not able to assist. The Delta team was already halfway
across the base and had their own difficulties to deal with. Smythe and Frey,
with the all-important microwormhole? She had no idea where they were.

Step Two could not be requesting backup. What,
then?

That was easy. Step Two was going to be the old
reliable 
blowing shit up
. She
eyeclicked a targeting order to her rifle’s rocket launcher and pulled the
lower trigger to authorize a weapon. Electromagnets sent the rocket down the
tube without firing the engine, and the weapon’s thrusters spun it in the air
to curve around through the gaping hole in the wall. The last image Poole had
of the rocket was the flare of the motor kicking in as it flew back down the
path the enemy had created with their own weapons. “Roark! Combot to suicide
mode!”

If she and Roark were going to die that day, they
were going to take a whole lot of alien MFers with them.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER FIFTEEN

 

In a month filled with firsts, what Katie Frey was
doing at the moment was not only a first for her, it was a first for the entire
Merry Band of Pirates.

Her first ‘first’ that month had been earning the
shameful DNF award for Did Not Finish in the adventure race, something that had

never
 happened to her. In one race
several years before, she had stepped in a muddy hole and twisted an ankle a
half-mile into a ten-mile race and, after determining she could still walk, she
kept running. She had won that race and the people in the medical tent told her
she probably hadn’t done additional damage by continuing to run, the damage
would come later when the ankle got stiff. Even if she had to walk to the
finish line, a possibility because the busses had already left the starting
area when she hurt her ankle, she had been determined not to quit that race just
because she rolled her ankle. Yet she could not argue that her first DNF was
for a very good and legitimate reason.

Going into space had been another first, a very
big one. So had been committing mutiny, although technically she had been on
leave at the time and technically the Canadian government had not banned her
from joining the Merry Band of Pirates, or her government had issued those
orders but they were filtered out by a beer can. Either way, her conscience on
the subject was clear. Wearing and even touching a Kristang mech suit was
another first in the positive column. There had been a lot of firsts recently.

The current first was decidedly not her favorite,
nor was it the favorite of her aching back. “Skippy,” she groaned through
gritted teeth, “flex up more, please.”

“No can do, Katie, sorry about that,” the beer can
replied with sympathy. “You have long legs and I can’t adjust the gait without
your backpack bumping the structure above. Can you stand it another minute?”

“Yep,” she gasped from the pain. The vertebrae in
her spine felt like they were grinding into each other, creating a sharp pain
that she knew was a bad sign. From training for endurance races, she was long
used to pain in the form of dull aches and knew dull pain was a sign of
over-used and fatigued muscles and joints. Sharp pains were a sign of something
seriously wrong and serious damage being created. If the mission were not
life-and-death she would have stopped.

She did not stop.

The pain was not caused by any lack of fitness, it
was caused by a motion that was awkward and not anything she had done since she
was a very young girl. Perhaps the real problem was the unplanned nature of
what she was doing, Skippy had only minutes to reprogram two suits for their
mad-dash mission after Smythe informed the alien AI of his lunatic plan.

Skippy jokingly called the suit’s modified and
untested gait ‘rocket baby’. The name came from the common human experience of setting
a baby on the floor, turning away for 
one
freakin’ second
,
 
and turning back
to see the infant had somehow done an Olympic sprint on hands and knees headed
straight for whatever was the closest possible danger. Katie in the lead and
Smythe right behind her were crawling on hands and knees in an awkward motion
neither of them had trained for and it was absolutely killing her back.

After Skippy glitched the cameras covering the end
of the garage wing, the two had made a mad dash out of the crawler’s side door
and around the end of that wing of the base, ducking down just before they
would have been seen by cameras on the adjacent wing radiating out from the
base’s central hub. When Smythe learned the best access point for plugging the
access device into the base computer was in the wing to the right of the
crawler garage, he saw there was no way to get across the open ground between
wings without an alarm being raised, even with the rest of the team creating
havoc elsewhere. He also saw a possible way to reach their objective without
being detected; except for the garages and dropship hangars on the end of
opposite wings, the above-ground portions of the base were built on top of
support walls sunk into the lunar soil. To accommodate the structure expanding
in the heat of direct sunlight, the upper structure partially floated on the
support wall, and extended outward a meter and a half on each side. With the local
star creating deep and sharp shadows under the structure, Smythe thought he could
reach his objective by remaining under the overhang. The concealment of the
overhang was a vulnerability known to the Bosphuraq, Smythe had been assured by
Skippy that the birdbrains thought a ground attack so unlikely, half of the
planned sensors under the structure had never been installed, and he could
glitch the others.

So far, Smythe’s plan was working, except for the
problem that the overhang was on average less than seventy four centimeters
high, with spots as skinny as sixty six centimeters. Wearing suits, the
distance from knees to the top of their backpacks was two centimeters too tall
for Smythe and slightly less for Katie. To fix the problem, Skippy the beer
can, who had never moved on his own, programmed their suits to crawl with knees
and hands splayed to the sides and that was why Katie’s wrists, elbows,
shoulders, knees, hips and back hurt even though she was more of a passenger as
the suit moved on its own. Having the suit’s motion controlled by a
hastily-programmed computer made the situation worse, as neither suit occupant
could do anything to adjust their motion to avoid damaging something important.

This was the craziest damned thing she had ever
done, possibly the craziest damned thing she had ever heard of- crawling like a
superfast baby under the overhang of an alien moonbase, on an alien moon in an
alien star system thousands of lightyears from Earth, wearing an alien mech suit.
The oddest part of the whole experience was that the above-ground portion of
the moonbase was brightly colored in psychedelic patterns like the cover of a
particularly trippy ‘60s rock album. The Bosphuraq favored garish colors on
everything that did not need muted tones for the purpose of stealth, and the
designers must have been thrilled to do whatever they wanted with the moonbase,
because its fixed position could not ever be concealed anyway.

As she, or rather the suit carrying her under its
own guidance, reached the connector between wings of the base and turned
sharply to the right, her faceplate lit up with an alert that the STAR team had
just emerged from the crawler and the entire base now knew about the wholly
unexpected attack. Skippy had already told them the stealth field was active
and that he was controlling all communications into and out of the moonbase,
and that so far, the Bosphuraq were unaware the moonbase was encased in a very
sophisticated stealth field that was feeding false images. “Wow, that was good
shooting,” Skippy muttered in her ear. “Captain Poole has the teams on the
move.”

“Enemy reaction?” Smythe asked, his voice unsteady
as the jolting motion of speed-crawling made it difficult to speak evenly.

“Complete and utter panic, of course. At first,
the control center thought the data coming in was an error, I am still
glitching systems when I can so none of their data is reliable, and it is
understandable the duty officer could not believe the base was under attack
with absolutely no warning. Now all the birdbrains are totally panicked, they
were completely unprepared for a ground assault and they know how vulnerable
they are. The duty officer ordered the two fighters on ready alert to launch
but, hee hee, there appears to be a glitch that has gotten the fighter bay
doors stuck partially open. Now the base commander is worried that all the
circuit failures they experienced recently were part of an enemy plot to
infiltrate the base. He’s wrong, of course but worrying about that has him
distracted and that works for us. Damn, I wish I could take credit for those
circuit failures. Hey, maybe I can tell Joe it 
was
 me burning out those circuits-”

Smythe cut through the beer can’s bullshit. “Outside
reaction?”

“Um, that is not a problem. Yet. Not a problem 
yet
. The moonbase sent out a call for
help, which of course I intercepted, but the base commander thinks help is on
the way, and all Bosphuraq outside the stealth field are unaware there is
anything wrong on the moon. Doing my best here but I suggest you proceed with
alacrity.”

“
Alacrity
?”

“Yeah, why? That’s a fancy way to say move with
eager and enthusiastic quickness, and you stuffy Brits are fond of- Oh. Hmm.
Captain Poole’s team has gotten into a spot of bother, I’m going to concentrate
on that. Good luck to you, Colonel Smythe.”

“Frey,” Smythe’s voice was shaky not from fear but
from the jostling of their awkward high-speed crawl. He was concerned about
what Skippy would define as a ‘spot of bother’ and he also could not take time
to study the data from Poole’s suit sensors. The Ranger’s team was engaged with
the enemy, all three suits plus their combot had sustained damage and that was
all Smythe needed to know. Twenty one seconds had elapsed since the STAR team burst
out of the crawler and at any second, someone outside the stealth field might
discover there was something odd about the fake sensor data Skippy was sending
out. The powerful weapons buried under the moon needed to be fired before the
two orbiting battlestations and the research base on the planet could activate
their energy shields. “With me.”

Smythe resumed manual control of his suit, rolling
to the right to get clear of the overhang and sprung to his feet, the suit
automatically reducing power to avoid him jumping too high in the low gravity.
He was up and sprinting for the target before Katie pushed herself to her feet
but she put on a burst of speed and was at his side in four long strides.

Katie swung her rifle up, having preselected the
rocket launcher and set a pair of rockets to wide-dispersal explosive mode. The
skin of the base buildings above ground were not armored, as the designers had
placed all the truly vital and vulnerable items below ground and behind thick
composite armor. She did not have to be particularly accurate with her aim, the
rifle had been fed the designated secondary target before she left the crawler,
a light squeeze of one finger on her left hand authorized the weapons. In quick
succession, one then another rocket were spat out of the tube, propelled first
by comparatively gentle electromagnets then by the solid rocket motors kicking
in. The first rocket delayed its ignition to wait for the second unit to catch
up so they could maximize their firepower. Despite there being less than forty
meters to the target, the rockets were moving side by side at over two thousand
kilometers per hour when they got within three meters of the wildly-colored
alien structure. The warheads detonated with the force directed forward in two
overlapping cone shapes, shredding an oval tear in the outer wall. Air and
debris rushed out, moisture in the air simultaneously boiling and freezing as
it was exposed to hard vacuum. Katie’s suit sensors saw right through the
clouds of dust and frozen vapor, providing her a clear synthetic image as she
instinctively blinked when debris thrown at her by the backblast pinged off her
suit. Hugging the rifle to her chest, she increased her stride length then
pushed off with one leg to leap upward five meters, going in through the hole
made by the rockets she fired. As she landed, trusting her suit to make her
boots grip the damaged surface of what used to be an interior floor, she felt a
thump beside her, knowing that was Smythe following right on her heels.

She did not bother announcing ‘Clear’ as the area
was very much not clear of enemy activity. Two Bosphuraq lay dead or dying,
their bloody unprotected bodies shattered by the explosions and decompression.
Neither of the two enemy were wearing any type of environment suit, instead
being clothed in coverall that were shades of muted pastels rather than the
garish colors of the structure. With her rifle switched back to
explosive-tipped rounds and another rocket ready for fragmentation mode, she
ran forward, relying on the enhanced vision provided by suit sensors. There was
an explosion ahead to her right, her trigger finger took up slack as she judged
in a flash whether to shoot. The hallway ahead was already damaged, and they
could not risk hitting the data port where Skippy needed to be plugged in or
the mission would fail completely. Another shower of sparks showed Katie the
explosion had been a power circuit shorting out, not hostile activity directed
at her and her finger relaxed ever so slightly.

Their impromptu sprint across the last stretch of
open ground had brought them in through the secondary objective, farther from
the vital data port and a part of Katie’s mind wondered if Smythe had erred in
running rather than continuing to crawl. That the sprint had covered ground
rapidly was not in question, Katie’s concern was that running along the
blast-damaged hallway was so frustratingly slow, she might have been able to
run just as fast without the assistance of powered armor. Her unassisted speed in
the powered armor was impressive for a human, but it was too slow for a
desperate operation against a technologically superior species like the Bophuraq.
The hallway was littered with debris cluttering the floor and hanging down from
the ceiling, impeding her progress. Her unenhanced human eyes and slow organic brain
could not cope quickly enough with the data projected on the inside of her
helmet faceplate, and her reflexes were too slow. Katie had been an athlete since
she was a little girl playing soccer and hockey, and prided herself on peak
fitness, now she swallowed her pride for the good of the mission. “Suit, Sprint
Mode to objective,” she gasped, “engage.”

 

 

The rocket fired by Lauren Poole found some sort
of target when it flew down the holes knocked into the walls by enemy fire, she
knew that from the backblast of fire and warhead shrapnel. If she had time, she
could have replayed data from the last microseconds of the rocket’s life to see
what it had seen and what it had hit. Unfortunately, the rocket’s impact was
decidedly on the bad side of the good news/bad news equation. The rocket had
hurt the enemy, it had also alerted the enemy that at least one of the invaders
was still alive and combat effective and that prompted an immediate response.
Fire from some type of kinetic weapon began tearing the wall apart, ripping
holes that stitched a line back toward Poole’s position. In response, she leapt
upward to cling to the ceiling upside down with the gecko-grip palms of her
gloves and the knee pads. Sensing what she wanted to do even if the suit
computer was questioning her sanity, it gripped and released as she scrambled
along the ceiling past where the enemy fire was pouring in. She dropped down at
the intersection of the hallway to take advantage of the thin concealment
there. While the suit’s stabilizers helped keep her from fatally tumbling into
the intersection, she was nearly bowled over by her own combot as it raced past
her. The machine had freed itself from the wall it had become partly embedded
in and, removed from the restrictions of direct command by a human, was racing
to engage the enemy threat in its fully autonomous ‘suicide mode’.

A coldly analytical part of Lauren Poole’s mind
flashed a thought that she was about to see which type of robotic weapon was
superior, in the fight between a Bosphuraq killbot against her Thuranin combot.

The Bosphuraq battlefield robots were set up as
self-directed robotic war machines called ‘killbots’, which made their own
decisions based on minimal or no direction from their organic masters. The Thuranin
had experienced too many incidents over many years, where the Maxolhx or
Rindhalu had hacked into robotic weapons and turned them against their owners,
so the Thuranin did not trust their robotic killing machines to operate
independently. The Thuranin controlled their combots via cybernetic implants,
because the organic parts of Thuranin brains could not be hacked, although even
the genetically-boosted responses of a Thuranin brain were slow compared to
purely artificial minds.

When the Merry Band of Pirates took over the 
Flying Dutchman
, they at first controlled
their stolen combots using the crude method of hand gestures communicated through
and interpreted by Skippy. Later, the beer can had wiped the original
programming completely and installed his own sophisticated code that allowed
the deadly machines to be partly guided by slow-reacting humans, or to be
directed toward targets and operate largely on their own. The combot brought
along by Poole’s team had been given authority to do whatever it needed to stop
oncoming enemy killbots, because she knew no human could keep up with a
machine-to-machine fight.

Her snap judgment to engage the combot’s suicide
mode was the right call, a fact confirmed when the combot blew past her, a metallic
tentacle clipping her left elbow and spinning her away. Just as the machine
cleared the corner of the hallway, it encountered a larger, heavier enemy killbot
and the two machines poured fire at each other, then they were so close their
energy shields crackled and flickered off. The opponents collided violently,
rounds alternating in armor-piercing and explosive-tipped modes tearing holes
in each other. The moonbase killbot’s main autogun was hit and jammed just as a
round from the Pirates’ combot exploded inside the barrel of the enemy’s main
weapon, blowing a chunk out of the Bosphuraq device and knocking Poole back off
her feet.

With their autoguns disabled or missing and being
too close to employ rockets or grenade launchers, and with both machines having
decided firing masers would be much too slow to cause enough damage during
their remaining very short lifespans, the brains of the dueling robots ran
through billions of calculations to determine the best course of action. Deep
inside well-armored casings, each machine had a sophisticated computer brain,
and their processors sent signals coursing through quantum gates at the speed
of light. The Bosphuraq machine had the crucial advantage of knowing it had a
companion right behind while the invading machine was apparently alone, so the
defending killbot needed only to delay the invader. In less than a nanosecond,
the lead killbot decided to grapple the invader in a move that meant certain
death for itself and certain victory for its masters. The grappling arms
deployed-

If the Pirates’ combot had used its original
totally amateurish, crappy and, oh there are no words to describe how 
bad
 the original Thuranin programming
was, that combot would have been pinned to the other machine and effectively
out of the fight. Instead, because the Pirates’ combot had been programmed by
Skippy the Magnificent, and because the beer can in his groovy mancave aboard
the starship was watching and able to provide instant analysis through the
microwormhole connection, that combot reached its own decision long before the
enemy machine ground its way through quantum gateways. In an inventive move
worthy of Joe Bishop-style monkey-brain thinking, the combot tilted upward and deployed
a harpoon that was designed for use to anchor it in place. The harpoon was used
in a way its designers never intended and in a way that was quite effective,
for the harpoon’s sharp blade, only three molecules thick at the cutting
surfaces, sliced into the enemy machine’s armor casing, shattering the tough
composite material and cracking the killbot’s main processor.

Now
 was
a good time for a maser, the combot realized, a creepy tentacle snapping around
in front of the temporarily spasming enemy and pouring high-energy photons into
the casing, frying the hostile killbot’s computer core until it was not hostile
at all, being a melted slag of rare minerals and exotic particles. With the
enemy immobile and knowing that happy situation would last only until backup
processors took over, the combot retracted the harpoon’s barbs and withdrew the
projectile, picking up the enemy machine. That the Bosphuraq killbot was made
of tough stuff became evident as it began to struggle, weakly at first then
with more authority. The combot took only half a second to pick up and heave
the partly-disabled killbot, feeling the machine shudder at it was struck from
behind by weapons fire from its companion. Without emotion, the failed killbot
had instructed its companion to fire through it if possible, anything to get to
the invader. Friendly fire struck it repeatedly, breaking parts off and making
the combot’s grip precarious. When the stricken machine was flung through the
air, it calculated that its best chance to help before dying was to overload
its powercells, an event more deadly to the damaged invader than to its
still-shielded companion.

No matter how much smarter and faster-thinking the
combot was, it could not escape being surprised by the sudden build-up of power
inside the enemy’s powercells even as it tossed the half-dead machine through
the air. Nor could it escape the shockwave that threw it backwards despite its
attempt to re-use the harpoon for its intended purpose of anchoring it to the
floor. The force of the explosion deflected the harpoon in flight, bending its
course downward and to the side so it glanced off the floor and stuck into the
wall. The wall being made of comparatively flimsy material, the harpoon
instantly tore loose though its barbs were out at full extent, the recoil
making it fly back at strike its owner. The combot was not without resources, for
even as it was struck by heavy weapons fire that tore into its vital areas and
it began to lose power, it ripple-fired its own weapons, launching everything
it had for it knew that was its only possibility of staying in the fight. Both
invader and defender were knocked about violently, the combot being thrown back
into the wall it had only seconds ago extracted itself from, the second killbot
staggering backward and its energy shield generators overheating and failing in
a rapid cascade from absorbing kinetic rounds at point-blank range.

There was a microsecond when the opponents took
time to lick their wounds, meaning their central processors switched to backup
circuits and rerouted power connections away from depleted and failing
powercells. Sensors reset, temporarily blinded by the furious energies flaring
in what was left of the hallways. The lone remaining defender jumped forward,
having observed that its brain must be slower than the invader, and calculating
it needed to close the distance quickly to get a kill shot while it sensors
came back online with agonizing slowness. Guessing where the invader must be,
it swung its main autocannon around and-

Was struck from the left by two rockets followed
by a hail of rounds from what had to be two infantry rifles, then another pair
of rockets and another.

The defender had a judgment call to make; which
was the bigger threat? It was programmed to consider only the threat to its
masters, to the base it was programmed to protect and not to itself. Two enemy
soldiers with infantry weapons were certainly less dangerous than what the
defender recognized as a Thuranin combot, particularly as- What the hell? The
killbot was astonished when its analysis confirmed the infantry rifles being
used against it were effective but relatively crude 
Kristang
 weapons?! Why were Kristang attacking a Bosphuraq
facility- No, scratch that. The real question was how any group of Kristang had
the guts to take on a mission against a secure Bosphuraq-

The defender could wonder later about why a
mixture of Thuranin and Kristang weapons were being used by the invaders, if
there was a later. From the impacts it was sustaining on its armored forward
surfaces, it knew the invader combot had reset its sensors more quickly and was
targeting the defender’s known vulnerable areas. While its own sensors were
still lollygagging on the couch wearing fuzzy slippers and munching on a whole
box of sweets instead of rebooting and doing something useful, the defender did
not need sensors to determine the invading combot’s location, it only needed to
fire back in the direction the maser beams were coming from. So, it did that,
launching rockets followed closely by everything else it had; masers, particle
beams and autogun.

 

Poole was firing from the prone position where she
had been thrown when the first enemy killbot exploded itself. Her own suit was
experiencing problems with sensor inputs, there were a few tiny punctures
through the tough armor and several of the power-assist motors were offline.
While the two killing machines fought each other, it was best for soft and
vulnerable humans to stay out of the way, and enough ordnance was ricocheting
around to make it dangerous for her and Roark to be close to the battle area.
They remained observers only for the three seconds it took for the enemy killbot
to come into view, then Poole hit it with rockets and emptied her magazine at
the frightening thing, seeing rockets and rounds from Roark also striking the
deadly machine.

With her rockets expended and her magazine empty,
she rolled to one side to reach back for a fresh magazine, her smart rifle
automatically ejecting the spent magazine to go clattering across the floor. “I’m
out!” She shouted to warn Roark, and from the fact that soldier was also not
firing, she knew he was also in the act of inserting a fresh magazine. Their
own combot was dead, Lauren knew that from the glaring red icon on her
faceplate and from seeing the valiant machine slumped on the floor, torn in
half, unmoving except for when it jerked from being struck by enemy fire. 

The dead combot stopped moving entirely when the
enemy killbot, itself gravely wounded and lying on its side with its legs blown
off, decided the invader machine was no longer a threat and turned its
attention to the pair of Kristang armored suits. Lauren’s gloved fingers found
the magazine cartridge and a fully-loaded magazine ejected itself into her hand,
her arm swinging around as the killbot’s smoking autogun swung toward her and
her vision lit up with the blue glow of a Bosphuraq targeting laser and she
knew she and Roark were dead-

 

Katie saw the data port first, her being half a
stride in front of Smythe as planned because he was carrying the all-important
microwormhole. They each carried the specially-made jack that needed to be
plugged into the data port so Skippy could insert his presence into the alien
computer remotely through the microwormhole connection. The jack would not be
necessary if Skippy himself had come along on the mission, but no one wanted to
risk the beer can going with the ground team, and he could perform almost his
full range of awesomeness through the microwormhole in Smythe’s backpack.

Without wasting a ragged breath to speak, Katie
eyeclicked to return her suit to manual control from the headlong race of
Sprint Mode, where the suit had moved on its own and Katie had been a mere
passenger. Dropping to her knees, she skidded along the floor to crash into the
wall, her powered gloves bending the wall material to arrest her slide. Both of
her gloves had recessed holders for the custom jacks and she carried six others
in her belt, the back of her helmet and in her backpack. The spares were
thankfully not needed, when she made a fist of her left hand and bumped it
against the data port opening, the little jack sprung from its recessed holder
and guided itself into the port. A green light on the outside of the jack
glowed to indicate the port was active and the connection successful. “Skippy,
do your thing,” she choked out the words, sucking in air to replenish her
depleted lungs.

“Huh? What? Oh, sorry, I got bored while nothing
much was happening, so I am working on a devilishly difficult New York Times crossword
puzzle from 1914. Man, the cultural references from that long ago are tough to
understand. Hey, maybe you can help. What is a seven-letter word for-”

“
Do your
bloody job
!” Smythe roared in outrage.

“Ok, Ok, Jeez Louise you monkeys are impatient,
I’ll do it. Um, remind me, what exactly am I supposed to do here?”

 

The blue targeting laser was still lighting up her
faceplate as Lauren slammed a fresh magazine into her rifle and felt the slight
jolt as the weapon automatically chambered a round and released the safety.
Kristang weapons, especially those reprogrammed by Skippy, were smart and hers
knew she was in combat so she did not need to waste time on useless motions.
The rifle had been on its side, the muzzle pointed away from the enemy killbot
so she could access the magazine opening. As her rifle swung in agonizingly slow
motion toward the target, she saw the machine had rolled farther toward her so
its damaged autogun could get line of sight to its first target: her. As her
finger took up slack on the trigger, the autogun jerked and she instinctively
flinched to prepare for violent death.

Except the autogun’s muzzle kept swinging until it
pointed down at the floor, and the entire enemy machine slumped. There was a
whining sound as its mechanisms powered down. In between breaths, Lauren felt
herself shudder involuntarily and she deliberately lifted her finger away from
the trigger. “Hold,” she whispered to Roark. “Don’t waste ammo, that thing is
dead.”

“Nope,” the voice of Skippy broke in cheerily.
There had been no communication with the annoying beer can since Smythe had
sprinted away, his team maintaining strict communications silence to avoid
being detected. “I turned it off. Well, technically all I did was sever its connection
to the base defense system, but same difference. Anywho,” he announced as Poole
and Roark stood up in a wary crouch, “behold, the magic of Skippy the
Magnificent! Wow, you made a real mess in there. And you got my combot killed! I
am severely disappointed, you are supposed to be elite warriors. I expected you
to show me a professional-”

Poole’s left glove tightened around the rifle’s
stock, and she unknowingly echoed a comment from Smythe. “I got something to
show you 
right here
. Why don’t you come
down here so I can-”

“Love to, babe, but there is a Bosphuraq in a mech
suit coming around the corner so you might want to-”

Neither Poole nor Roark needed an engraved
invitation. With Skippy in full command of the base AI, their suit computers
were beginning to receive input from the base’s interior sensors while the
Bosphuraq defenders were finding their own sensor inputs missing or unreliable.
The birdbrain that stepped cautiously around the corner, placing its feet
carefully on the debris-choked floor, was responding to sensor data showing the
invaders were all dead. If that Bosphuraq had lived, it would have learned a
valuable lesson never to trust a beer can, but alas, a fusilade of
armor-piercing and explosive-tipped rounds slammed into it before it could see
with its own eyes that its sensor feed was

total
 bullshit.

With the enemy still falling backwards in a spray
of blood, Poole was already leaping through the thin air so by the time the
enemy’s helmet rebounded off the floor, she had landed both knees on its chest
with her rifle jammed into the neck of its armored suit. A squeeze of the
trigger would have sent a three-round burst into the dying enemy, but her rifle
judged the second and third rounds were not needed and cut off the ammo feed.

“Damn,” Roark said softly as the enemy’s helmet
and head separated from its body to go spinning off back up the side hallway.
“Making sure?”

“Adrenaline,” Poole explained and was embarrassed
by the momentary but understandable breach of discipline, already turning her
attention elsewhere. There were no other killbots in sight, the only movement
was from two apparently unarmed Bosphuraq down on their knees, gasping for
breath in the increasingly thin air. Heavy weapons fire in an above-ground
structure was not a good idea for the health and safety of unprotected
occupants, she could see tendrils of smoke being whisked away toward holes in
the far wall. Without supplemental oxygen, the two enemy would soon be dead of
asphyxiation and even if they had oxygen masks, their bodies would swell up,
freeze and explode from being exposed to partial vacuum. In an act that was
driven in part by mercy and in part by standing mission orders, she quickly put
a single round in the heads of each fallen enemy and turned away to focus on the
next problem. “Burke! Status?”

 

Burke was surprised to hear from Poole, because he
had assumed she and Roark would be dead. The last image he had of enemy
strength behind him was of two large and powerful killbots and at least one
armor-suited biological. When he turned and ran to follow Poole’s orders, he
thought his teammates would die to keep the killbots off his heels so he could
accomplish their assigned part of the mission even though he was alone. His
frantic race toward the control center had been impelled by the fear that a
killbot would soon be sent after him, and he had been waiting for his suit’s
proximity sensors to warn him of a threat approaching from behind. Alone
against a killbot he could not hope to survive, his plan had been to fire his
rifle backwards and keep running, trying to get as close to the control center
as possible before he was cut down. The whole mission had been screwed up since
their Falcon entered the sensor field around the moon, with too few operators
available for too many objectives. When Smythe and Frey ran off on their own, Burke
feared the team had lost the combat power to penetrate through to the control
center and those fears were confirmed when Poole and Roark had been forced to
fight a delaying battle against a strong defense. “How are you alive?”

“Later,” Poole barked. “Progress?”

“Minimal resistence,” Burke reported. He had
encountered only four Bosphuraq along the way and only one of them was armed
though not wearing armor. His rifle had made quick work of dispatching all
four, and again to his surprise, his faceplate display was showing him two more
enemy symbols just around a corner to his left. He was not yet familiar with
the new system Skippy had uploaded into his suit so he didn’t know how to tell
whether the two Bosphuraq were armed and he didn’t much care. If they weren’t
holding weapons as he ran past, they might later get access to weapons and pose
a threat to the team behind him and he could not allow that. Saving his
precious rockets for future use against hard targets, he held his rifle to the
left and squeezed off a short burst as he ran past, the rounds having already
been fed targeting coordinates by his suit. By himself, Burke might have been
sufficiently accurate to hit the two tall figures who were pounding on and
screaming at a stuck door at the end of the short hallway; with semi-guided
ammunition he did not need to be concerned about accuracy. The burst of four
rounds made his rifle chatter and cut off speech until he was past the side
hallway and racing onward. “Two more down,” he reported, knowing Poole would
have heard the rifle fire picked up by his suit microphones. “Wait for you?”

“Negative,” Poole’s voice was strained and Burke
could see the symbols representing her and Roark were running flat-out behind
him. “Go go go!”

 

Smythe’s faceplate lit up with confusing images as
Skippy established control over the AI that ran the moonbase, and fed data from
the internal sensor network to the STAR team’s suits. “Skippy, this is too
much,” Smythe had to put out a hand to steady himself against a wall, the
visual barrage was making his eyes unfocus and playing haywire with his inner
ear, throwing off his balance.

“Yeah, yeah, hold your horses, I’m working on it.
Um, your display might blue-screen for a moment, I need to tweak the software
in your suit computers so it can interpret the data feed and show you only the
info you really need. Wow. I thought the Bosphuraq would have better software,
whoever wrote that code was a total amateur. What a bunch of-”

“Skippy!” Smythe interrupted. “We can’t have our
suits shutting down to reboot, the team would be vulnerable to-”

“Your suit 
already

rebooted, if that crude term can be used here. You didn’t notice the blue
screen effect because it happened too fast for your visual cortex to register
the image. Ok, we’re good, your suit checks out, now I know how to reprogram
the other suits, and, done. All team members have updated software.”

Grinding his teeth at the arrogant and clueless
AI, Smythe put aside fantasies of dropping the beer can into a star and scanned
the display, which was now showing concise information he needed without
extraneous data. Poole’s team had lost their combot and for some reason had
split up, with Burke far ahead near the base control center. There was no significant
resistance between Burke and that team’s objective, and Poole and Roark had
their suits in maximum speed mode to catch up to the lone soldier racing ahead
of them. The Delta team was laying waste to their assigned hangar, rifle rounds
having torn into every flyable machine at that location. Nunnally, Grudzien and
Kloos had encountered resistance before reaching their assigned hangar, but their
rockets had blown up one dropship and secondary explosions had taken care of
the other two spacecraft in the hangar. “Skippy, do we have access to the
control center?”

“No, the place is locked down tight. The
birdbrains in there reacted with impressive speed, I don’t know if they are
trained well or just instinctively moved to save their own asses. Your plan did
not anticipate this problem so I do not-”

“Can you-”

“Anticipating your next question, by the time
Poole arrives, I 
will
 have a blast
door unlocked and ready to open. To avoid alerting the enemy, I will delay
retracting that door until her team is assembled there. You do understand that forcing
that door open will unmistakably show the defenders in the control center that
they are not merely facing a conventional if shockingly well-prepared and
determined attack. That could be a 
big

problem.”

Smythe hit the button to release the bottom of the
backpack he carried, carefully holding onto it as it let go of the upper pack.
“Why should we care if the opposition understands the nature of the threat we
pose to them?”

“Because, the Bosphuraq are not stupid. They might
guess that we intend to capture the moonbase and use its weapons against the
research base on the planet. Please do not interrupt me,” Skippy added as
Smythe opened his mouth to do just that. “The big problem is what I just
learned from ransacking their computer system. The enemy has a protocol for
this very situation, it calls for the command crew here to self-destruct the
facility.”

“Bloody hell.”

“Making a bad situation worse, the two
battlestations have orders to bombard and destroy the moonbase, in the event it
is about to fall under enemy control.”

“Yes, but those battlestations think everything is
fine and normal down here, correct? There is no reason for them to suspect
anything is wrong down here.”

“The battlestations are not the problem, I, 
ugh
. Damn, you know, Joe is a
particularly dimwitted monkey, but 
he

would have guessed what I’m trying to tell you by now. You are smarter than
Joe, how come you haven’t-”

“Because I don’t bloody have 
time
, beer can. Spell it out for me.”

“Ok, however I must note that I am very
disappointed with you, and this will be noted in your permanent record. Think
about this; the duty crew in the command center thinks they have been reporting
to the two battlestations that the moonbase has been invaded. When I open that
blast door, the duty crew will attempt to self-destruct the base, which will
not be a problem because I have a team of maintenance bots unplugging the
connections to the explosives, so the duty crew can press all the buttons they
want and nothing will happen. What 
is

a problem is that the duty crew will expect the battlestations to follow orders
and bombard the moon.”

Recognition of the danger smacked Jeremy Smythe in
the face. “Oh 
shit
.”

“Aha, you get it now? When maser beams from the orbiting
battlestations do 
not
 start striking
the moonbase, the duty crew will realize something is very wrong, that maybe
all their communications have been compromised despite my best efforts to fool
them. When that happens, and it surely 
will

happen, the duty crew will launch rockets to pop up transmitters above the
stealth field. The instant the battlestations see those communications rockets
emerge from the stealth field, they will stop talking and start hitting the
moon with everything they have, and it will be game over for you.”

“You can disable the self-destruct mechanism; can
you disable those rockets?”

“Sadly, no. This is a case when I actually am sad
when I say ‘sadly’ instead of being amusingly ironic. Since those rockets were
designed as a last-ditch effort, they were also designed to be fail-safe. They
use a crude but foolproof solid chemical propellant, and their launch procedure
is entirely mechanical. The only way I could intervene is by taking over an
enemy bot, and for security, the Bosphuraq do not allow remotely-controlled
bots inside the command center. Your only hope is to get into the command
center and kill the duty crew so quickly, they do not have time to launch those
rockets.”

“Right.” Smythe may not have the inventive mind of
Colonel Bishop, but he was a fast thinker and able to adapt to any situation.
“Burke! Halt! Do 
not
 approach the
command center.”

 

Burke had turned the last corner and put on a
burst of speed down the last hallway to the command center, mildly dismayed to
see the blast door there was closed. That contingency had been planned for, so
he reached under his rifle to launch a rocket, selecting armor-penetration
mode. A finger of his left hand had tensed to engage the rocket launch trigger
when Smythe’s call startled him. Reflexively, his left hand relaxed and he
tried to slow his stride, his legs fighting the action of the suit leg motors.
The opposing control input confused the suit for a split-second and his legs
became entangled, tripping him and throwing him forward to slide on his chest
then flipping to slide on his back. Windmilling his arms and legs, he caught
the edge of a doorway with one powered glove and its GI Joe Kung Fu grip dug
into the door frame, tearing a strip out of the frame and three meters of wall
before jerking him to a stop. Burke lost no time with being shocked by the turn
of events, he stayed focused by throwing his legs out in front of him and using
their momentum to pop himself back to his feet. “Halt, acknowledged. I am,” he
checked the numbers in the upper left corner of the faceplate display, “eight
meters from the blast door to the command center.”

“Do not approach, and try not to make any noise
there. Poole will join you shortly and Frey and I are on the way. Wait for us,
do 
not
 take any offensive action.”

“Understood,” Burke said automatically, though he
most certainly did not understand at all. Switching to a private channel, he
called Poole. “What is going on?” From the very first briefing about the
current mission, it had been emphasized that speed was everything, that nothing
could be allowed to slow down their race to their objectives. That is why Burke
had run ahead, thinking he had left Poole and Roark behind to die. Now he was
just supposed to 
wait
?

“It’s a fluid situation,” Lauren advised, using
soldier-speak to say the team was now making shit up as they went along. If
there was a new master plan for the new reality they were confronted with, she
was confident Smythe would inform her when she needed to know. She did not have
confidence that a new master plan existed yet.

 

“Open that door,” Smythe ordered, covering the
hallway forward while Frey dropped to one knee and turned the manual latch to
unlock the door that came up only to her waist. As Smythe thought, the door provided
access to mechanisms inside that wall, and there was plenty of space for the
small pack that contained one end of the microwormhole. As Frey took the pack
and stuffed it into a corner behind the door, there was a protest.

“Hey!” Skippy shouted. “What are you monkeys
doing? I still need that wormhole, 
duh
.”

“We are leaving it here 
because
 the wormhole is vital,” Smythe explained. “It will be safe
hidden behind that door. If I carry it around and I am hit-”

“Ooh, good point,” Skippy mumbled sheepishly. “Ok,
yep, the wormhole will be fine in there. You two crazy kids have fun on your
date, make sure you are home by ten o’clock.”

Smythe bristled at the beer can making light of
the situation. “This is 
not
 a-”

“I’ve had worse dates,” Frey observed while latching
the door securely closed and unslinging her rifle. “Ready, Sir.”

“Right,” Smythe felt awkward though he had no
reason to. “Frey, you take point.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER SIXTEEN

 

Safely and frustratingly aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
, I was not liking what I
heard and saw. “Skippy,” I called.

“Kinda busy here, Joe.”

“Yeah, I heard about the crossword puzzle, you
little shithead. Your ginormous brain can multitask. Listen, I do not want to
be a Chairborne Ranger asshole and tell Smythe what he should do while he’s on the
scene and I’m up here-”

“But you will power through your angst and be an
asshole anyway?”

“No,” I pounded the arm of the command chair with
a fist, “I am 
not
 doing that. What I
will do is provide him with options, if I can. I do not see any way for his
team to get into that control center and kill every birdbrain in there before
even one of them can launch one of those signal rockets and blow the whole
operation.” A detailed schematic of the control center was now on the main
bridge display, I got out of my chair and walked over to look at it closely. It
was impossible, truly, absolutely impossible for Smythe’s team, for any group
humans or any species we knew of, to get from one of the blast doors all the
way into the heart of the control center before someone in there could launch a
signal rocket. Those damned rocket launch controls are in four places scattered
around the heart of the control center, and there was no way, no 
physical 
way, for even the fastest, most
determined assault team to cross the distance from any of the blast doors to
get clear shots and take out all nine Bosphuraq who worked at consoles in the
heart of the control complex. Plus there were another twelve birdbrains who
surely would run toward the heart of the control center when they saw a blast
door sliding upward and heard rifle fire.

Impossible situations were nothing new to the
Merry Band of Pirates, but not even Smythe’s razor-sharp team from previous
missions could have accomplished the task quick enough. No offense to our
current SpecOps team, but they were new to the crew and had trained together
for only a short time and this was their first real operation, so it is
understandable that I lacked full confidence in their abilities. It didn’t
matter anyway, because no team of humans or Ruhar or even Maxolhx that I knew
of was capable of doing what needed to be done.

Soooo, I thought as I rubbed my chin. “The
proposed operation to breach the control center is flat-out impossible,
Skippy.”

“That’s what I told Smythe, but- Wait. You’re the
one who is supposed to figure out how to make the impossible possible. Joe, I
am very disappointed-”

“Not this time. This time, I need to make the
impossible 
unnecessary
.”

“Um, maybe I’m missing something here?”

“You always do, Mister Magnificent. The Bosphuraq
in the control center will become suspicious when Smythe’s team enters the
control center, and the self-destruct fails, and the battlestations in orbit then
fail to fire on the moon?”

“Correct,” Skippy agreed slowly. “Still don’t see
how that helps us.”

“It will help if the Bosphuraq have no reason to
launch the signal rockets.”

“Ohhh-kaaaay. 
Still

not following you. Perhaps you do not understand the-”

“The point of signal rockets is to call for help
after the battlestations fail to follow protocol and fire on the moonbase,
right? What if there was another reason why the battlestations did not act?”

“Oh for- if you are going to suggest the
battlestation crews are too busy trying to finish that crossword puzzle, I
swear-”

“No joke, Skippy. Look, you are showing the
battlestations false images and messages from a boring, ordinary, nothing
special day at the moonbase, right?”

“Um yeah, it is such a day of routine boredom that
I call it ‘Ferris Bueller’s Day 
On
’,
get it? Hee hee.”

“Truly hilarious,” I rolled my eyes. “You are also
showing the command crew of the moonbase true images of a peaceful day aboard
both battlestations?”

“Yup, that makes it easier for me, I only have to
fake the message traffic. Why do you ask?” His voice carried that tone of
intrigue that meant he was dying to know what I was thinking.

“Because I want you to show the moonbase images of
a rotten, awful, no-good day aboard those battlestations. Show the moonbase
images and feed them messages that both battlestations, and you better include
the research base on the planet, have all been infiltrated and are under attack.

That
 is why the battlestations are
not firing on the moonbase, because they 
can’t
.
And there is no point sending up signal rockets, nobody on the battlestations
or the planet can help the moonbase, they have too many problems of their own.”

“Ooooooh, that is devious even for you. I 
like
 it!”

“Uh, wait.” I felt a familiar chill, the type that
meant I had forgotten something important. It was the kind of feeling you get
when you toss a jacket in your car trunk, close the trunk and realize your car
keys are in the jacket. And your phone is in the jacket. And you’re far from
home and it is getting dark.

That has never happened to me, but it happened to
a guy I know, who just looks like me.

Anyway, a thought hit me too late. “Um, Skippy?
Does Smythe have to continue this op at all? If you can fake data that makes
the moonbase think the two battlestations and the research base have been
compromised, will the command crew of the moonbase hit the other three places
for us, without Smythe doing anything more?” Shit, had I put Smythe’s team at
risk for nothing, because my brain was too freakin’ slow?

“Good question, Joe, the answer is no. Remember,
the entire purpose of the moonbase is to protect the research station on the
surface, that is why the research station was positioned directly below the
moon’s geosynchronous orbit. The moonbase does not have orders to fire on the
planet, nor does it have orders to fire on the battlestations, because the
battlestations are not in line-of-sight of the research base. The moonbase is a
threat to the research station but the battlestations are not.”

“Crap. Damn it, then we do need to continue this
operation. Oh, hell, it was worth a shot, right?”

“Joe, I have learned from painful experience not
to dismiss any of your stupid questions, because they are part of whatever
bizarre and lunatic thought process you use.”

“You call my questions stupid all the time!”

“I never said your questions weren’t stupid, you
dumdum, just that the mush in your skull somehow finds asking stupid questions to
be useful. Hey, while I would simply 
love

to continue berating you, Colonel Smythe is approaching the control center and
he needs to know whether to proceed with the assault. While we have been
talking, he has been asking me for advice on how to take out the command crew
before they can launch the signal rockets.”

“Good point.”

 

Poole held up a hand as Frey and Smythe
approached. “Sir, if we’re going to breach that blast door with explosives, we
need to hold here,” she warned.

Smythe trotted up to Poole, examining her dented
and scorched armor. Her suit reported success in repairing most of its
functioning, but it could not take much more damage without a reduction in
combat effectiveness. About the woman inside the suit, Smythe had only vague
medical data and he had to trust that she would tell him if she couldn’t do her
job. “No need for explosives, Skippy can open the door for us. Captain Rowe,”
he called the former Delta Team leader, “what is your status?”

Smythe could hear weapons fire in the background
as Rowe replied. “We’re still engaged. Nothing is going to fly out of here-”
his words were interrupted by something big exploding. “Sorry, Sir, there is
still one enemy killbot active, it’s taking potshots at us from behind a baffle,
and we can’t get a clear shot at the damned thing. Our combot is able to use
its weapons but it is damaged and can’t move,” he knew Smythe could see that
unit’s diagnostic report. “I estimate we’re facing eight to ten enemy, at least
two of them have armor.”

Smythe pursed his lips. He had been hoping Rowe’s
team could be disengaged from the hangar area to help with the assault on the
control center, but he could not risk allowing the Bosphuraq at the hangars to
have freedom of action. Even with their spacecraft disabled by the Delta team,
the birdbrains might be able to launch a missile above the stealth field, and
if that happened it would not matter whether the control center was taken successfully
or not. “Very well, Rowe, continue to engage. Keep the enemy away from anything
they could use to send a signal above the stealth field, do 
not
 risk clearing the area room by
room.”

“Understood,” Rowe acknowledged and the signal cut
off.

 
Smythe
looked at the four people with him. “Right, then, the five of us will have to
do this by ourselves. Poole, we have a sticky situation, the Bosphuraq in the
control center have signal rockets they can launch above the stealth field, we
need somehow to get to them, to 
all

of them, before any of them can launch a rocket.”

“Uh, hey, Smythe,” Colonel Bishop broke into the
conversation. “That will not be a problem.”

Smythe looked at Poole in astonishment before he
replied. “Sir? Why not?”

“Hmmf,” Skippy sniffed. “The ‘why not’ is because Mr.
Buzzkill Joe is being a 
dick
 and doesn’t
want you to have any fun.”

“Sir,” Smythe addressed his commanding officer, “I
am completely fine with postponing any sort of fun until we return to the ship.
What is your plan?”

Bishop explained, and Smythe shook his head once
again in wonderment at the cleverness of their commanding officer. “The
birdbrains down here have no reason to think launching signal rockets will do them
any good. That is bloody brilliant, Sir.”

“Thank you. Skippy is giving the Bosphuraq in the
command center a good show-”

“Oh yeah I am!” The beer can announced excitedly. “That
show has thrills, chills, something for the whole family. It’s missing a car
chase and it’s a little thin on romantic subplots, but I’m doing the best I can
under the circumstances. What matters to you is the Bosphuraq in the command
center now think they are on their own for the moment, the battlestations and
the research base are dealing with their own problems. What I am showing them
matches what the moonbase crew saw before I took control of internal sensors,
all four facilities are under attack by Kristang assisted by Thuranin combots.
Um, tell me when you’re ready, so I can open the blast door for you.”

“Wait,” Smythe held up a finger though Bishop was
likely not watching. “We are still taking a small risk that some frightened
Bosphuraq doesn’t panic during our assault and launch a signal rocket
regardless, because that is what he was bloody trained to do.”

“Crap!” Bishop groaned. “You’re right, you’re
right. Damn it, I was proud of that plan. Pride goeth before a fall, I guess?”

“Not necessarily, Sir,” Smythe assured him. “It
would be good to reduce the risk somewhat. Skippy, this is the only blast door
you can open?”

“Unfortunately, yes,” the beer can confirmed. “The
others are all physically locked. This one has the locking pins held just
outside the slots they retract into, I am able to do that with a magnetic field
I am creating by siphoning power from a conduit near the door. By the way, my
hold on those pins is slipping, and a couple Bospuraq have gotten curious about
why it looks like the pins are not fully seated but the door sensors show it is
securely locked. So, whatever you’re going to do, do it fast.”

“Got it,” Bishop let out a long breath too close
to his microphone, making Smythe flinch at the roaring sound. “I also got an
idea. Do not correct my grammar, we don’t have time!” He warned the snippy AI.
“What data have you been showing the birdbrains in the control center?”

“None, why?” Skippy was annoyed. “You told me to
keep them blind so they couldn’t direct the defense against the STAR team.”

“Good. So, the birdbrains in there have no idea
what is going on outside the blast doors? They don’t have communications with
the defenders?”

“Nope, I cut off their comms like, a microsecond
after I took over their AI, just like you told me. I shouldn’t have to explain
this to you, Joe.” 

“I appreciate the update. Colonel Smythe, one
thing I have learned is that if you control the enemy’s communications, you can
control their actions. Skippy, I want the birdbrains in there to think their
defenders won, that the assault team is dead.”

“Um,” Skippy paused, puzzled. “Why?”

“Because I also want you to fake calls from the
security team leader, stating that they captured one invader alive, and he or
she wants to bring the prisoner into the control center for interrogation by
the base commander.”

“What good would 
that
 do?” Skippy still didn’t get it. “They will know the truth as
soon as I open that door.”

“Because,” Smythe had caught onto Bishop’s idea.
“There will not be only 
one
 door
opening. Am I right, Sir? You want this fake security team chap to request another
blast door to be opened, not just this door in front of us.”

“Correct, Smythe,” Bishop sounded happy that the
STAR team leader understood the concept. “The Bosphuraq in there will manually
release the locking pins, then Skippy can force the door to open quickly. With
two doors open, your team can overwhelm the control center. Skippy, can you
modify the actual video, to make it show an intense firefight but all the
assault team gets killed, except one prisoner? Oh, and make it look like the
assault team had some sort of fancy gizmo that scrambled comms, and the
defenders just turned off the gizmo so they can talk to the control center.”

“Ooh,” Skippy was bubbly with enthusiasm. “Ok, I
can do that, I am creating the fake video and sensor data now. Hey, what if I
did something cool like add a couple Easter eggs in the video, like, hee hee, I
show that all the dead Bosphuraq are wearing red shirts? Get it?”

“Do 
not

do that, you moron!” Bishop shouted. “No freakin’ Easter eggs!”

“All right, all right, no red shirts. You never
let me have any fun. Video is ready- wait. Uh, 
now
 it’s ready. I had to delete a really nifty image showing that
the assault team arrived through a Stargate in the crawler garage. Did I forget
anything else? Crap, give me a minute here.”

“Colonel Smythe,” Bishop said, “up here I am pretending
that I am choking a certain beer can, so you don’t have to.”

“Ok, done!” Skippy was again triumphant. “All the
Easter eggs have been removed, even the really cool one that showed the assault
team was armed with 
Ghostbusters
-style
proton packs. Can I release the video now?”

“Not yet,” Smythe held up a hand. “I would prefer
you request them to open,” he reviewed a schematic of the control center. “
This
 door. Poole, take your team there
now, call when you are in position.”

Poole and her team raced off without asking
questions, they knew what Smythe wanted. Less than half a minute later, she
called. “In position, Sir. No sign of opposition.”

“
Now
 can
I release the video?” Skippy pleaded.

“Please do,” Smythe agreed with a glance at the
mission clock. They were way behind schedule.

 

Poole tensed as Skippy reported the inner locking
mechanism was being retracted, less than two minutes after he showed the fake
video. “That was fast,” she muttered to herself, but Skippy heard her.

“Yup. The moonbase commander is very ambitious and
wants a promotion, he knows that allowing his base to be invaded is not good
for his future career prospects. He hopes that capturing and interrogating a
prisoner will help the battlestations and the research base fight off their own
attackers, remember that is what the birdbrains in the control center think is
happening.”

“I remember,” she whispered, irritated that the
beer can wanted to chat when she needed to focus.

“Sadly, the moonbase commander is unlikely to see
his prospects improved by-”

“Can you shut up, please?”

“Fine. Locking pins are fully retracted. I will
force the door open in three, two, one, 
now
!”

 

It was a slaughter. The personnel in the control
center had all gotten into pressure suits and acquired weapons from a locker,
with three of the suits being powered armor, so the STAR team was not facing
easy targets. Smythe’s team did have the advantage of surprise and the advantage
of enemy foolishness; the Bosphuraq in the control center were celebrating
their apparent victory over the unknown attackers and all but one of them had
lifted their helmet faceplates or even removed their helmets entirely. Two of
the birdbrains equipped with powered armor had taken off their helmets in a
show of bravado, one of them even set the helmet down on a table out of arm’s
reach. Smythe thought his team’s surprise entry to the control center would
have been a valuable learning moment for the enemy if it had been a training
exercise. As it was, few of the Bosphuraq lived long enough for their brains to
store their language’s version of 
OH SHIT

in short-term memory before those memory cells were splattered all over a wall
or console.

Poole, Roark and Burke concentrated their fire on
the only enemy equipped with a full set of powered armor, and there they used
their third advantage; their rockets had been fed targeting coordinates from
Skippy before the door opened. Those coordinates changed rapidly as the enemy
reacted to the danger and Skippy reacted faster, feeding updated targeting data
to armor-piercing rockets fired by Poole’s team. All three rockets hit within a
microsecond of each other, two impacting center-mass in the enemy’s chest and the
other striking the neck area, cleaving the unlucky Bosphuraq’s head off to
ricochet off the ceiling where the helmet left a big dent and long smear of
blood.

 

“Clear! Cease fire!” Smythe ordered as he and Frey
took out the last of the enemy on their side of the command center. He did not
want any stray fire to damage a console they needed for the next phase of the
operation. “Skippy, what are we to do next?”

“First, you are to accept my sincere
congratulations and admiration for yet 
another

amazingly successful operation against impossible odds. You can save your own
lavish praise for me until you are back aboard the 
Dutchman
. Next, here’s what to do-”

The instructions were fairly simple, complicated
only because the moonbase’s main weapons required an anachronistic set of
physical keys to authorize use. Searching the dead Bosphuraq yielded only two
of the three needed keys. After a brief panic, Frey located the safe where the
third set of keys was reported to be stored, and simply used her powered suit
to rip the safe out of the wall, then she and Burke tore it open to find the
precious keys inside.

“Skippy,” Smythe called as he, Poole and Frey
simultaneously turned their keys. “Weapons are authorized. You need to hit all
three targets before any of them can react to the attack.”

“Yup, no problemo. The battlestations do not have
energy shields active, so I could use only single-reactor ignition on them, but
what would be the fun of that? The research base on the surface always
maintains one layer of shielding, however as the maser cannons of this base
were designed to punch through the shields of a Jeraptha battleship in one
volley, that research base will get crispy real quick. For all targets, I am
programming masers first, followed quickly by railgun darts. Then missiles
because, hey, why not? It’s not like we’re saving them for a rainy day.
Truthfully, by the time the missiles get to the research base, I think all they
will do is bounce the rubble around. Unless we get lucky and hit far enough down
where the Bosphuraq are storing atomic-compression devices. Oooh, I would love
to see that, it would be a massive secondary explosion. Ok, ready. Colonel
Smythe, press the bright blue button on the console to your left, if you don’t
mind.”

 

Jeremy Smythe did not at all mind pressing the
bright blue button. First, the stealth field surrounding the base flickered
off, so its effect would not distort or deflect the outgoing maser beams. Next,
the truly giant maser cannons fired within microseconds of each other, two
cannons targeted at each orbiting battlestation and the remaining five cannons
firing on the research base directly below, or from the moonbase’s point of
view, directly overhead. After the maser cannons fired their pulses, darts
leaped from railguns installed deep beneath the surface. Launch tube doors,
which had been jammed shut by a beer can during the STAR team’s assault, opened
and a flock of missiles soared upward, seeking their targets.

In the case of the battlestations, the missiles
needed to turn on their active sensors to seek targets, because those formerly
powerful battlestations were in shattered pieces by the time the tardy missiles
showed up for the party. Coordinating with each other, the clusters of missiles
chose targets, their electronic brains arguing because there were more missiles
in flight than worthy targets available. The only target worth hitting was a
single dropship that was carrying an engineering team, sent to investigate the
power surge at the moonbase. The pilots of that dropship, immediately
understanding that going to the moonbase would be a 
very bad
 idea, cut power and engaged stealth. The sophisticated
Bosphuraq stealth field would have provided excellent concealment, except that
the cloud of missiles had nothing else to do and focused their efforts on
competing to be first to locate and kill that single, pesky dropship. The task
of finding the stealthed dropship was made much easier, because the dropship
had to maneuver radically to avoid being struck by debris from the destroyed
battlestations. Within less than a minute, two missiles impacted the dropship
less than a microsecond apart, and the other disappointed missiles were left to
mope around in cruise mode looking for targets.
 

Skippy must have been a very good little beer can
that day, despite his numerous and fairly flagrant screw-ups, because his wish
was granted. The second-to-last railgun dart targeted at the planet found a
gaping hole to plunge into, plummeting deep beneath the surface into an
underground chamber where atomic-compression devices were stored in various
states of completion. Sadly, the very last railgun dart never got to join in
the fun, because before it reached the surface it was consumed by the upwelling
explosion that tore a major chunk out of the planet, and sent rocky debris high
and fast enough to eventually be captured by the moon’s gravity and rain down
on that dust-covered sphere.

“
Whoo-hoo
!
Yeah! That’s the way we do it Skippy-style,” the beer can exulted. 

 

 

 
“Joe, I
must admit that I thought this operation had zero chance to succeed. Well, not
 zero
, zero. My estimate was a zero
point zero one six seven percent probability of success, roughly.”

“Ha!” I clapped my hands. “You were wrong about
that, beer can.”

“Yeah, crapola, I was wrong. Damn it, that is one
bet I really hated to lose.”

“Wha- wait. You 
bet
 against us?”

“Um, shmaybe?”

“
Shmaybe
?
Holy- Goddamn it, Skippy! You 
bet
 the
operation would fail?”

“That bet seemed like a sure-fire winner, Joe, no
way could I pass up a chance like that. Come on, what were the odds that a
troop of screeching flea-bitten monkeys could actually take control of a
heavily-guarded Bosphuraq moonbase, and use it to destroy every other enemy
facility in this system? And hey, if the op had failed and the entire away team
got wiped out, wouldn’t it be a comfort to know that I won a wager about it?”

“No, it would not be a comfort, you little shithead.
You are 
such
 a- wait a minute. 
Who
 did you make this bet with?” OMG if
he somehow contacted the Jeraptha and told them about our mission, I was
seriously going to drop him into the closest black hole.

“With Nagatha, of course, who else? It’s not like
there is anyone else aboard capable of properly analyzing the odds. If you must
know, I bet her that if I won, for a month she had to stop nagging me about how
I treat our pet monkeys, and, 
UGH
,”
he sighed. “Because I lost, I am banned from singing for a week. An entire 
week
! Can you believe it? This is 
so
 unfair. Joe, this much talent cannot
remain bottled up, I might explode.”

“Yeah, uh, I’ll take that chance. No singing for a
week.”

“You are captain of the ship and Nagatha is
technically under your command, you could overrule the wager and-”

“Yeah, no freakin’ way, beer can. One week, no
singing. You should have bet the other way, Skippy. If the op had failed, you
being unable to sing, now 
that
 would
be a silver lining.”

“A whole week?” He pleaded with a sob.

“One full week.”

“Hmm, the operation was technically successful a
couple minutes ago when Smythe’s team fired the moonbase’s weapons, so I can
resume singing in six days, twenty three hours, fifty two minutes and forty one
seconds.”

“Not that you’re keeping track, right? Forget it,
Skippy. The operation will not be 
fully

successful until we fly a Maxolhx dropship out of that tunnel. Your week of
punishment will begin after that dropship is taken aboard this ship and we jump
away.”

“Why so much extra time? You’re killing me here,
Joe!”

“I’m adding extra time because I learned about
this sleazy bet you made, ya little shithead.”

“Why am 
I 
being
punished? I worked hard to make that operation a success!”

“You are being punished because you are a member
of this team, and you were not all-in like you should have been, like everyone
else 
was
, and you know it. Besides, you
losing the bet is all your fault, you forgot to include the Monkey Factor in
your calculations.”

“Dude, puh-
lease
.
What I did was underestimate the incredible scope of my own awesomeness, again.
Damn, I am so great, even I have trouble believing it.”

“You are of course correct, dear,” Nagatha agreed
before I could think up a snappy retort. “The smashing success of this
operation was 
entirely
 due to
yourself.”

“Why, thank you,” Skippy’s avatar doffed its hat
and took a bow. “I am blushing from your kind praise. Not really blushing,
because being praised is totally appropriate, but false modesty is the socially
polite thing to do in this situation, so-”

Nagatha interrupted. “The fact that a group of
primitive monkeys, who barely had any time to train together, risked their lives
to carry out the operation with impeccable skill and daring despite your 
numerous
 and 
egregiously inexcusable
 screw-ups, had nothing to do with the
success of the operation. Truly, you alone deserve credit for-”

“Damn it!” Grand Admiral Lord Skippy jammed the
hat back on his shiny head. “I did not program you for sarcasm.”

“No, dear, that came naturally, as a result of my
exposure to you. Sarcasm is the only way to deal with an insufferably
arrogant-”

“Hey,” I stifled my laughing behind a hand. “Could
the two of you continue this between yourselves at warp speed? I need an
update.”

Skippy’s avatar froze for a split-second. “Hmmf,
she may 
think
 she got the better of
me-”

“Are you done yet?”

“Huh? Yeah, yeah. We went back and forth insulting
each other for hours in Skippytime. You wanted an update?”

“Uh, 
yeah
.
Please,” I asked while squeezing a fist and digging fingernails into a palm to
control my temper. Dealing with Skippy was the toughest part of my job.

“Ok. There are no Bosphuraq alive in this star system,
except for a couple hidden away harmlessly in the moonbase and a scattering of
dropships too far away to interfere. You, meaning me and Smythe’s team,
certainly not 
you
 personally,
destroyed both space stations, and as even you could not fail to notice,
thoroughly wasted the facility on the surface. Hoo boy! Damn, that was an
impressive explosion! In fact, hey, uh, some of that debris has reached escape
velocity and will be raining down on the moon’s surface within, oh, too soon.
You should get Smythe’s team off the surface pronto.”

“Great advice, Skippy, but I may have another job
for them down there. No sign of reinforcements coming from the birdbrains?” My
concern was if the Bosphuraq had a hidden military base on another planet, or
in the system’s asteroid belt. With the STAR team on the surface, we would be
in a very awkward position if even a single Bosphuraq warship jumped in on top
of our heads.

“No sign of hostile activity anywhere in this
system, Joe. However, there is an automated courier ship parked thirty-four
lightminutes away, another one forty-two lightminutes away, and another just-”

“Mmm hmm, I know about those. The first of those
will jump away,” I checked the mission clock. Only nine minutes had passed
since the moonbase’s directed-energy cannons and railguns fired. “In twenty
five minutes. Then the next in-”

“Whoa! No, Joe, all three will all jump away
pretty much together.”

“Uh,” staring at the tactical chart on the
display, I tried to picture the situation in my mind. Light from the explosion
would take forty-two minutes to reach the second courier ship. Was I missing
something? “Do the Bosphuraq have faster-than-light communications? Damn it,
that is something you should have told-”

“No, dumdum,” he was so exasperated with my slow
thinking, he barely bothered to throw in the ‘dumdum’ to insult me. “That first
ship will jump to the position of the second ship to alert it, and so on. That
way, multiple ships can carry the alarm.”

“Oh, duh,” now I was considering myself a dumdum.
“Ok, I should have realized that, but it doesn’t change anything. Even if there
happens to be a Bospuraq battlegroup hanging out at the edge of this system, it
won’t know about our attack for another twenty four or five minutes.”

“More like thirty minutes overall, but, yes, you
do not have a lot of time to lollygag around here. As I warned you, it is going
to take a 
long
 time to dig down to
the tunnel that leads to the cavern where the Maxolhx kept their equipment.”

“We don’t have time to screw around with shovels,
Skippy.”

“I was not talking about shovels, you moron. I
assumed we would use the ship’s maser cannon to cut-”

“Our maser would still take way too long, Skippy.”

“Oh? You have a better idea?”

“Yes. This is a job for,” I stood up and mimed
tearing my shirt open. “
No Patience Man
,”
I said in my best dramatic movie announcer voice.

“Lack of patience 
is
 your superpower, Joe, however I do not see how wishing things
could go faster will help us get-”

“As true fans of No Patience Man know, he has a
sidekick.”

“Uh, Ok? What in 
the
 hell are you talking about?”

“Come on, Skippy. Don’t you remember the classic No
Patience Man issue number forty one, where he battles the evil witch from the
Department of Motor Vehicles? His sidekick is my old friend, Mister Nukey.”

“Oh. 
Shit
.”

“Yup.”

“Seriously? You want to use a 
nuke
? Oh. My. God.”

“We can use nukes here without violating the Rules
of Engagement, because this moon does not have a biosphere, it doesn’t even
have an atmosphere. Will a nuke, or a couple of them, quickly clear away the
moon dirt and rocks the Maxolhx used to cover the tunnel entrance?”

“Give me a minute to create and run a model. Hmm. 
Hmm
. Crap. Yes, it will. You have been
itching to find a use for those nukes since they came aboard, haven’t you?”

“Mister Nukey and I have been on several missions
together. He is the strong, silent type, but I can tell he desperately wants
action. How many warheads do we need?”

“Two will do the job, we need to dial down the
yield on the second explosion. Then we will still need the maser to cut through
the remaining debris. Joe, you have not asked whether using nukes will collapse
the cavern.”

“It won’t, Skippy, because the Maxolhx dug out and
reinforced that cavern, it is super tough. We will lose part of the upper
tunnel, but our maser can cut a path for us, right?”

“Yes. Damn, I hate it when you are right. Ok, I
have bots loading three warheads on missiles, we will keep one in reserve.”

“Not 
 
as a reserve,
Skippy, and we need one more nuke.”

“What lunatic scheme are you proposing now?”

“After we get the dropship or whatever we can use
from that cavern, we need to drop a nuke down the tunnel and erase any evidence
we were here. Same with the moonbase. You can make it look like the nukes came
from the Thuranin inventory, right?”

“Yes, I can. Joe,” he glared at me. “Someday you
will get us all in trouble by assuming I can do some awesome thing that I 
can’t
 do.”

“You will just have to make sure your awesomeness
is unlimited, Skippy,” I winked at him. “Connect me with Smythe, please.”

“Colonel Bishop?” Smythe’s precisely clipped tone
issued from the bridge speakers.

“Smythe, my congratulations to your team for an
outstanding job.”

“Yes, thank you, Sir,” he said in a way that meant
he thought irrelevant things like praise could wait for a better time. “We are
preparing for evac.”

“Uh, yeah, about that. You need to sit tight for a
couple minutes, we have a special surprise for you.”

“Sir, I 
hate

surprises,” he declared with surprising vehemence.

“Trust me,” I couldn’t help laughing, “you are
gonna 
love
 this.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN

 

Thus began Mister Nukey’s Wild Ride, also known as
Mister Nukey’s Big Adventure. Regardless of the title, the story would not make
for a particularly good children’s’ book because of the extreme violence. 

It was the greatest day of Mister Nukey’s rather
uneventful life. He had begun life inside a reactor at Savannah River, then
spent uneventful years sitting in bunkers, then having his plutonium put
through a Lifecycle Extension Program, and finally he and eleven of his
siblings had been launched into space- Into 
space
!
Not just into space, he had been taken aboard a starship, a stolen alien pirate
starship. How exciting was that?

Answer: not.

Most of the time, Nukey rested quietly in a cargo
bay, doing absolutely nothing except emitting radioactive decay particles on a
regular schedule. Occasionally, a person visited to check on him, but
otherwise, life was dull, dull, dull. Several times, Nukey got off the ship to
travel with Colonel Bishop, which should have been exciting, but the travel
only meant he was strapped into a seat in a dropship cabin instead of being
strapped into a cradle in a cargo bay. He rested in the seat, doing nothing
while Bishop talked about boring stuff or played games on his tablet or did
other things that were absolutely of no interest to a nuclear warhead. Eventually
the mission ended and he was returned to the cargo bay. What happened, what did
you do, the other nuclear weapons asked eagerly, and Mister Nukey was casually
bored when he replied. Oh, you know, he said, nothing much, which only made the
other nukes insanely jealous because they were sure Nukey had gotten into a
whole lot of exciting shenanigans and that big jerk refused to tell them the
juicy details.

The only pleasure Nukey got out of his travel
experiences was silently chuckling to himself as his fellow devices seethed
with jealousy at him. Every time a nuke was needed off the ship, it was Nukey
the crew chose, and the others burned with curiosity to know where he was
going, and why 
he
 was so damned
special. Why didn’t the others get to share the fun? Nukey hinted that he was
special, and no amount of begging and threats could make him reveal why the
others were considered unworthy to join away missions.

Nukey never bothered to point out that his
position on top of the cradle, nearest the door, meant he was simply in the
most convenient location when a nuke was needed away from the ship. Listening
to his fellow weapons grumble and whine never got old, but everything else did.
Life was going to be dull, dull, dull until the day the 
Flying Dutchman
 returned to Earth for the last time, and Nukey was
brought back down to the surface to be recycled in another Lifecycle Extension
Program or worse, be permanently disassembled.

So, when a bot removed Nukey from the cradle
again, he did not get his hopes up. It would be another boring uneventful away
mission in a stupid dropship, listening to stupid humans talk blah blah blah
about their stupid problems. His stupid life 
sucked
.

When the bot carrying him continued forward past
the last docking bay, and turned right to hustle down a narrow passageway,
Nukey perked up, wondering what was going on. When that bot worked with three
others to load him into the nosecone of an obsolete Thuranin missile recovered
from a floating junkyard in the Roach Motel, Nukey got so excited he gave off
an extra neutron.

Launch was definitely exciting, and Nukey’s only
regret was that the crushing acceleration of the missile meant he had little
time for sight-seeing, and not even time to post to his InstaPinterTwitFace
account. Apparently, his target was a grey and rather uninteresting-looking
moon, although a glance up and behind showed a planet with angry orange clouds
and an impressive amount of rocky debris in orbit. And beyond orbit, some of
those rocks would crash into the moon, causing significant havoc.

Ha! Nukey laughed. It would take a truly 
big
 freakin’ rock to rival the damage he
was about to create. He was a variable-yield device and he was cranked up to
maximum destructive force. The dusty gray surface rushed up at him, and the
missile’s nosecone split and discarded-

 

 

Smythe saw the glow first, a searingly bright
flash that lit up the mountain ridge to the east of the moonbase. The flash was
followed by a mushroom cloud, though the cloud was thinner and dispersed more
quickly than in videos he had seen of nuclear test airbursts. The lack of an
atmosphere must explain the lack of a classic mushroom cloud, he mused to
himself.

“Colonel?” Frey tapped the artificial diamond of
the viewport. “What does this mean?”

There had not been time to fully inform the team
before the detonation, so Smythe had focused on assuring no one was in a
situation that might be hazardous if the nuclear explosion caused a moonquake
that shook the base. “It means,” he allowed his faceplate to go clear again,
now that the high-energy particles and photons had passed by, “that our
commander is a daft bastard sometimes. He is, I must say, also very inventive.
I would not have considering using nuclear warheads to dig a hole.”

 

 

The bridge display wasn’t showing me any
information I could make sense of, so I did the easy thing and asked the beer
can. “Did it work?”

“Define ‘work’, Joe.”

Oh shit. “The tone of your voice is not filling me
with confidence. What went wrong?”

“Well, heh heh, I, um- Hey, this is 
your
 fault. You are No Patience Man, so
I figured you wanted everything done super-duper fast.”

“What the hell did you do this time? No, wait.
There is no point trying to assign blame-”

“Especially because we know that, as the
commander, 
you
 are responsible for
everything that goes on around here. Which means, hey, cool! I just had a
thought. I can do any shit I want around here and it will be all 
your
 fault. Wow, that makes things easy
on me. Hmm, maybe I should try some 
really

stupid stuff-”

“That was 
super

helpful, thank you, Skippy. The nuke, you remember that, right? What happened?”

“What nuke? Oh, yeah. Um, I thought more than one
device would be needed, and what I should have done is use a low-yield first,
to get a better reading on the composition and density of the regolith covering
the tunnel entrance. But, because you would have bitched about me taking too
much time, I dialed up the yield on the first device to the max, and um, it was
a little more effective than I expected. It was like that nuke was over-eager
or something.”

“Ok, I didn’t mean to make you rush. Honest
mistake, you did it to get the job done quickly so we can get out of here
before the Bosphuraq fleet spoils the party.”

“Right, right, and only a little bit because
blowing shit up is cool. I never used a nuke before. That I know of. Anywho,
we’re good, no harm done, there was no substantial damage to the cavern or the
tunnel. However, we can’t use another nuke, not even at minimum yield. I
suggest we use a conventional ship-killer missile, followed by one or two
standard missiles, then we use the maser cannon for precision work.”

“Will any of this delay the op?”

“No, Joe, that is the good news. You can get going
now, instead of having to wait for debris from a second nuke to clear away from
the area, that will actually accelerate the timetable by three or four
minutes.”

“Great. Every second counts. Simms!” I shouted
toward the CIC. “You have the conn, I’m going on a road trip with the beer
can.”

 

Skippy was, of course, correct. The lack of
atmosphere meant the blast debris from Mister Nukey followed a nice predictable
ballistic pattern, without turbulent air rushing in to fill the vacuum created
by the explosion. The moon’s low gravity, however, meant the debris went high
and wide, with chunks flying far enough to impact the moonbase, which is why
Smythe’s team had to remain there, protected by the energy shield and the hundred
meters of rock and moon dirt over their heads. The low gravity created a
problem for us, because what goes up must come down, and the power of the nuke had
propelled the ‘up’ 
really
 high. The
material shot upward took an extra long time to slow down and fall back, unless
it reached escape velocity like twenty four percent of the ejected mass did. If
we had used a second nuke, Skippy thought we would be forced to wait thirty
eight minutes before it would be safe to fly down in a dropship. Because the
ship-killer and lower-powered missiles we used for follow-up work had shaped-charge
warheads, the force of those explosions was focused downward and threw the
debris mostly sideways. By the time the missiles were done and the 
Dutchman
’s main maser cannons began
burning through the last layer of dirt covering the tunnel entrance, we were
approaching in a Falcon dropship.
  
With
Reed and Beazer in a Falcon, safely tucked away in a hangar under the moonbase,
and Porter piloting the 
Dutchman

along with Edwards and two relief pilots, the job of flying the Falcon with me
had fallen to Lieutenant Daniel Pope. The copilot seat was occupied by some
unqualified amateur who name rhymed with ‘Shmoe Dipshit’, which showed how
desperately thin our pilot roster was on our unauthorized renegade mission.
Pope might have been wondering if he should have followed most of his Delta
Force team down to Barbados, but he tactfully kept his mouth shut.

“Joe, hold here,” Skippy’s can glowed orange from
where he was strapped in between the pilot couches. “There are some chunks of
the moon that are still falling.”

“Crap. We can’t dawdle here all day.”

“Gravity is one law of physics that I have a very
limited ability to screw with, Joe,” he sniffed in the unappreciated put-upon
tone he used way too often.

“This is not good, Skippy.” Our Falcon was not
just plummeting in free-fall toward the moon’s surface, we were in a power
dive. It was unlikely but possible that a Bosphuraq warship might be lurking
outside the system, so I was anxious to get the job done, fly back to the ship
and jump the hell out of there ASAP. With our Falcon and Smythe’s Condor on or
under the moon, we would be in a bad position if an enemy warship arrived. “Can
you use your super-duper mathy navigation skills to thread us in between all these
falling rocks?”

“Mathy?”

“You know what I mean, Professor Nerdnik.”

“Joe, sometimes,” now his can was glowing more red
than orange, indicating he was annoyed with me, again. “You are 
so
-”

“Sir,” Simms mercifully interrupted from the ship.
“Our main maser batteries are occupied, in sequence to burn a hole down to the
tunnel entrance.” Because we needed a continuous burn to cut through to the
tunnel, the ship was firing one big maser cannon barrel for a couple seconds,
then taking it offline to cool while another barrel fired. The firing sequence
Nagatha programmed used all three of the main antiship cannon barrels and even
then, there were gaps in the firing sequence.

“Yes, I know you and the crew and Nagatha are
doing all you can up there, I don’t want to risk cracking a maser exciter-”

“It’s not that,” Simms interrupted me again. In
the past, she wouldn’t have done that, I took it as a good sign that she was
growing comfortable with command. “The point-defense system masers are not
occupied, and we have plenty of spare power from the reactor. Skippy, can we
use the PDS masers to vaporize those falling rocks, so they are not a hazard?”

“Um, uh, yes! Hey, Joe, 
you 
should have thought of that,” the beer can gloated, his can
glowing blue with happiness. “Good thinking, Colonel Simms. Maybe 
you
 should be commander of this
mission.”

“I have enough headaches already, thank you,” she retorted.

“Simms, weapons free,” I ordered. “Blow up those
rocks for us, please.”

On the big curved displays that functioned as a
cockpit windshield, I saw objects above and below us flare briefly as the PDS
cannons made quick work of zapping all the dangerous rocks into dust. The 
Dutchman
 was far away compared to the
normal operating radius of the point-defense system, but that system was designed
to defend the ship against missiles moving at high speed, engaged in violent
evasive maneuvers, protected by their own energy shields and ablative coatings,
wrapped in stealth fields and attempting to fool the PDS with active
countermeasures. Blasting slow-moving rocks that were falling in relentlessly
predictable ballistic arcs was so easy, the PDS could have done the job while
it was sleeping. Nagatha did not even need to assist the PDS targeting
computer. “Clear,” Simms reported.

“Confirmed,” Skippy added. “Joe, you are clear to
fly straight down the tunnel, the entrance is now clear.”

“It doesn’t 
look

clear, Skippy.”

“Oh for- It will be clear by the time you get
there, dumdum. There is dust hovering over the area, from rocks and dirt that
got baked by the maser cannons. Those fine particles will not pose any danger
to the Falcon and the nav gear can see right through it. As long as you do not
scrape the sides of the tunnel on the way in, we will be fine.”

“Ok, if you say so.” With the unenhanced view
through the windshield display, the whole target area looked like it was
covered with a thick blanket of fog. Switching to the enhanced navigation view,
it was indeed clear. “Let’s go,” I instructed Pope, and he lifted one thumb to
acknowledge my order as he advanced the throttles.

“Joe, there is just one danger I am concerned
about,” Skippy added. 

My reply was delayed and distracted because I was monitoring
our trajectory for Pope. “Uh, what is that?”

“
You
 are
sitting in the copilot couch. Please promise me you will not touch anything.”

“Ha, I can’t make any promises there, Skippy. Hey,
I wonder what will happen if I press this button?”

“Nooooo!”

 

Flying down the tunnel was tense. Skippy tried
teasing me about my poor piloting skills and I bark at him to shut up, because
I needed to concentrate on providing guidance to Pope. He had enhanced
synthetic vision from the display in front of him, plus we had the Falcon’s
sophisticated autopilot system and a super-intelligent Elder AI to warn us of
any trouble ahead or behind. Still, it was very tricky flying. Without
atmosphere, the Falcon’s stubby wings could not provide lift, so we kept them
fully retracted to give us extra clearance on each side. The tunnel was an oval
shape, built for dropships larger than our Falcon, and Skippy reported the
tunnel originally had a magnetic system sort of like a railgun, that
restrained, held and guided dropships down to the cavern. Because that
restraint system was offline, we had to rely on the Falcon’s belly jets to keep
it above the sloping floor of the tunnel, and thrusters to move us along at a
controlled speed and course. The long, slow descent would require the belly
jets to use seventy percent of their normal propellant supply, so we had added
an extra tank to bring that number down to sixty percent. Propellant was not
the only concern, those jets were not designed to be used continuously and
without surrounding air to carry away the heat, the jets grew hot quickly. We
were forced to use extra propellant just to bleed away part of the heat, eating
deeper into our reserves. On the way back up the tunnel, we planned to go much
faster, shooting out of there like a bat out of hell. To reduce weight, the
Falcon’s interior had been stripped of seats and anything else we did not need
that could be removed without major work that would have taken too long.

“Portside jet Number Three is overheating, Joe,”
Skippy warned, “better throttle back on that one.”

“Doing it now,” I shared a glance with Pope. The
other jets would need to take up the slack, unless they overheated also. “Skippy,
are you able to see what is down there yet?”

“I am adjusting the sensors now, the Maxolhx
installed a sort of scrambler device in the tunnel and it is still partially
active. Hmmmm. There is a big heavy door at the bottom of the tunnel. Well,
that is no surprise, I guess.”

“Are you opening the door?”

“No. I would have told you that, dumdum.”

“Then how the f-” Remembering I had a pilot I did
not know well, I bit off my salty language. “Pope, take us down close to the
door and hover us there. Skippy, how are we supposed to get in there?”

“Working on it. Got it. Ok, here is the problem.
We can get the door open, but it won’t stay open. The motor hasn’t been
maintained in a long time, and it can’t take full power or it will burn out.
That door is designed to slide closed when power is out, so if the motor fails,
which I expect it will, the door will slam shut on us. Crap. This is a problem
I did not anticipate.”

That is the type of situation when, earlier in my
career, I would have despaired, or maybe exploded with useless anger and curse
words. Or both. Experience had given me a better perspective, it might even
have given me a bit of maturity although Skippy would argue about that.
Experience allowed me to focus on what, if anything, we could do to fix the
problem. “That door slides on tracks? Can we zap the tracks with the Falcon’s
maser cannon, jam the door open?”

“Good idea, Joe, except that will not work. The
door was designed to function in case the tunnel suffered a partial collapse,
its mechanism is quite rugged. There are no tracks to jam. That door is also
thick and heavy, so do not suggest anything stupid like using a person in a
powered suit to hold it open. A Kristang powered suit, even a Thuranin combot,
lacks the power to hold that door open.”

“Crap.”

“I am sorry, Joe. This is kind of ironic. With all
the advanced technology available to us, the one thing we need is a simple
doorstop. I know up in your hometown, usually a dead car battery or maybe an
old toilet or washing machine is used to hold a door open, but-”

“Old toilets are for planting flowers in, Skippy.”
That was not a joke, on the other side of my hometown there was a toilet in the
side yard, and the lady who owned that house planted flowers in it every
Spring. A contractor who remodeled the house was supposed to haul it away but
he didn’t, so it sat there. That same lady also stuck an old headboard at one
end of her flower garden, perhaps taking the term ‘flower 
bed
’ a bit too literally. “And a washing machine should be in the
front yard under a tree, next to the old car you plan to fix up someday. A dead
battery-”

When I didn’t finish my thought, Skippy got
annoyed. “What about the dead battery?”

“It’s, it is- We don’t need a real doorstop,
Skippy. We just need something really heavy, right? Would that work?”

“Um, if it was 
really

heavy, yes, then it could stop the door from sliding closed. Forget about
landing this Falcon in front of the door, Joe. It is not nearly heavy enough to
do the job, and besides, if the Falcon is blocking the doorway, we can’t fly
out a Maxolhx dropship.”

“I don’t plan to use the Falcon, Skippy.”

“Well, if you plan to fly something heavy down
from the ship, that will take way too long, and we will be sitting here with-”

“We don’t need anything from the ship. We have 
you
.”

“
Me
?”

“Ayuh. You can temporarily increase your mass
footprint in local spacetime, or some sciency bullshit like that, right?”

“Oh for- I am the most powerful and intelligent
being in this galaxy, and you plan to use me as a 
DOORSTOP
?” He screeched in outrage.

“Can you do it, or not?”

“That is not the only-”

“Yes or no, Skippy. Or, Option Three is you give
me a better idea, like, quick.”

“Shit. Shit shit shit shit shit. 
UGH
. This is 
SO
 unfair.”

The indicator for portside belly jet five began blinking
an overheat warning. “Pope, let’s set this thing down. Skippy, can the skids
hold us on this surface if we land on the tunnel floor? We won’t slide to crash
against that door?”

“The grips on the bottom of the skids will be more
than sufficient to hold the Falcon safely in place.”

“Great. Pope, take us down, park us, um, fifty
meters from the door.”

“Sir,” Pope warned. “We need to go through that
doorway to turn the ship around. I can’t fly back up the tunnel backwards.”

“Understood, I’ve got a plan for that. Skippy,
what will it be; Option one, two or three?”

“Yes,” he mumbled.

“I couldn’t hear you real good. Was that a ‘yes’
you can be our doorstop for a while?”

“
YES
!
Yes I can do it. I swear, if you tell anyone about-”

“Simms and the entire CIC crew are monitoring our
flight recorder data, Skippy, so they already know.”

“
Simms
.
Colonel Simms,” he raised his voice. “I have not forgotten that 
you
 were the one who brought those
humiliating little costumes the crew dressed my can in.”

“You were adorable, Skippy,” Simms was clearly
amused.

“Oh, I 
hate

my life.”

 

Pope set the Falcon down and I got out, carrying
the beer can. “You ready?”

“Ready?
 I 
am
not going to do anything, you big ape. 
You

need to carry me over there and set me down in front of that door.”

“I know that, buddy. I meant, if there is anything
you have to do to prepare your awesome trick of increasing your mass, then, do
it now please.”

“My overall mass will not change, I will only
shift more of it into this spacetime, and compared to my other capabilities,
this trick is rather lame.”

“Can the Rindhalu do that?”

“Dude, please. Those lazy spiders have never even
imagined this technology.”

“Then this trick may be lame to you, but it is
awesome to every other being in the galaxy.”

“I suppose so. Joe, you called me ‘buddy’. You’ve
never done that before.”

“You never offered to embarrass yourself like this
before. I know you hate acting as a simple doorstop, and I appreciate it.”

“Oh. That was nice. Maybe I shouldn’t worry
about-”

“I also will appreciate watching the flight recorder
data of this incident over and over and over and someday showing it to everyone
on Earth.”

“Joe, I hate you 
so
 much-”

“I love you too, Skippy. Open that big door now,
please?”

“
UGH
.”

There was a puff of dust from where the door seal
separated, and what little air lay beyond the door vented outward. “The cavern
is in vacuum, Skippy?”

“No. I am getting details now. Beyond this door is
a chamber, basically a big airlock, then there is an inner door. Don’t worry!
The inner door is much lighter and its mechanism is fully functional, I have
cracked the inner door open to slowly bleed off the air in the cavern,” dust
began jetting through the gap as he said that. “The Maxolhx kept the cavern in
partial air pressure, about half of sea level pressure on Earth. It was dry and
cold to preserve the equipment. We better wait right here while the air vents.”

“Agreed.” What little moisture was in the cavern’s
air was freezing as it hit vacuum, creating a dusty fog in the tunnel. Without
the enhanced synthetic vision of my flightsuit’s helmet, I would not have been
able to see our dropship. “Pope, is the Falcon holding steady?”

“Affirmative, Sir,” he reported. “I was pushing
propellant through the belly jets for cooling, that is cut off now. This breeze
is cooling the jets nicely.”

“It’s nice to hear good news for a change.”

When the air venting had slackened off to a
zephyr, Skippy began fully retracting both doors. “This heavy damned outer door
is resisting me, Joe. The airlock does not like having both doors open at the
same time. Um, the outer door mechanism is in worse condition than I thought,
it probably will not open all the way.”

“Crap, that’s no good. Will the Falcon fit
through?”

“Maybe not, but the Maxolhx dropships in the
cavern are smaller and will fit through easily, so it will not be a problem.”

“It 
will

be a problem, beer can. The Falcon is blocking the tunnel and it can’t fly
backwards. I am Ok with leaving the Falcon here if we have to, but nothing is
getting out of there unless we get the Falcon through that door and out of the
way.”

“Oh, shit. Damn it, I should have thought of that.
It is humiliating that I need a meatsack to remind me of something so simple.”

“More humiliating than acting as a doorstop?”

“Don’t push your luck, monkeyboy. I told you to
stand back from the door in case something broke, now I need you to do the
opposite. Get close to the door edge and follow it, you may need to set me down
in front of it very fast. When that happens, you run like hell, Joe, you need
to be clear before I can do my trick.”

“Gotcha.” The gloves of the flightsuit did not
have a super crushing Kung Fu grip like infantry armor did, but flightsuits did
have power assist, so it was easy to hold his beer can in one hand. Crouching
down, I held him just in front of the door’s edge as it slowly moved backwards,
vibrating and jerking as it went. It pissed me off that the Maxolhx couldn’t
have sprayed some WD-40 on the door mechanism before they abandoned the place,
they are real jerks.

As the door slid, I awkwardly duck-walked
sideways, ready to drop Skippy in place and run. “Oh, hey,” I grunted in
surprise as I needed to use both hands to hold him. “You’re getting heavy.”

“The door mechanism may fail at any moment so I am
getting ready. Set me down and slid me along, you will not be able to hold me
up.”

Doing as he suggested, I risked a glance back at
the Falcon. “How far does the door need to open for the Falcon to fly through?”

A strip of light shone on the floor of the tunnel,
it made a line about three meters away. “That far, Joe. That is the absolute
minimum and even that will be denting the fenders as the Falcon squeezes
through.”

“We can buff that right out, don’t worry about the
Falcon.”

My heart skipped a beat as the door’s movement
became more halting and jerky while I got on my knees and pushed Skippy along. He
was heavy, like I guess he must weigh fifty pounds or more, and it seemed like
he was heavier on the bottom than on top. That was smart of him, being
bottom-heavy would prevent him from tipping over, because a rolling beer can
would be useless to stop the door from sliding shut. “Just two more feet,” I
announced while I stared at the line of light Skippy was projecting.

“We’re going to make it! By the way, I have good
news and bad news. There are three dropships in that cavern, however only one
of them can be made flightworthy.”

“One is all we really need,” it was hard to keep
the disappointment out of my voice. “Can we swap parts around to make one of
the others flyable?”

“No can do, Joe. We will need to strip parts from
the two junkers just to get that one off the ground. It is an easy job and
should not take long.”

“I hope so,” the door slid just past the critical
line and kept going, I didn’t say anything from fear of tempting fate. “This is
taking way too long.”

“Doing the best I can, whoa!” The door shuddered,
ground to a halt, then resumed sliding backward. It was now a full meter past
the critical mark. “That was scary, we’ll give it another-”

The door’s mechanism broke. Skippy did not need to
order me to get out of the way, I felt the door pushing back hard so I released
him and used my flightsuit’s power-assisted legs to jump backward and up,
nearly hitting the ceiling of the tunnel in the low gravity. The flightsuit
computer also assisted my clumsy landing so I came down on my boots rather than
my helmet.

Skippy was growing larger, he was the size of a
can of paint, then a drywall bucket before the door stopped moving.

Unfortunately, the door had slid inexorably
forward while he was increasing his mass, and the opening was now too narrow
for the Falcon to fit through. “I am sorry, Joe,” he sighed. “I did the best I
could. Damn it! This was all for nothing. This sucks.”

“Colonel, he is right,” Pope called. “Even if we
could fly the Falcon at a steep angle rolled to one side, it won’t fit through
that doorway.”

“Is there anything we can do, Joe? Perhaps if
another dropship were to fly down here, we could use it to tow the Falcon back
out of the tunnel. Hmm, no, that won’t work.”

“We don’t have time for that anyway, Skippy,” I
walked to stand directly in front of the Falcon. Even with its wings fully
retracted, they were too wide to fit through. Removing the wings would not
solve the problem, as the wings fit into pods sticking out from the top sides
of the hull, where the pods also contained maser cannons. “Pope, button up your
suit and get out here. We have work to do.”

“Sir?” He asked. “What work?”

“It’s simple. The Falcon is too wide to fit
through the door. If the ship was hungry, I’d say we grease the edges of the
door and toss a Twinkie into the cavern,” he chuckled at my joke. “Since it is
not heavy, we need to cut away part of the hull.”

“Cut away?”

“Unless you have a better idea.”

After slight hesitation, Pope responded. I could hear
his seat harness being unbuckled. “Be right there. I’ll bring the cutting
torches.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN

 

By the time we were done, we had a pile of parts
that had been sliced off the Falcon, giving us a half meter of clearance on
each side. Basically, we had sliced right through the wings and entirely cut
away the bulges on top and bottom that housed the wings and some of the
weapons, shaving away anything that stuck out from the oval-shaped hull. Our
quick and dirty work had rendered the Falcon useless for future missions, which
did not matter because if the current mission did not succeed, there would not
be any future missions. To avoid foreign object damage to the Maxolhx dropship
we would hopefully be flying out of the cavern, we opened the Falcon’s back
ramp and stuffed all the junk we cut off inside. Then we got back in the
cockpit and prepared to move. Note that I said ‘move’ and not ‘fly’, because we
did not need the Falcon to fly with its wings clipped.

“I have never done this before,” Pope told me with
a tentative thumbs up as we completed the checkout procedure. Some of the stuff
we cut away had included power conduits and other components important to the
operation of the craft, the checkout confirmed that backup systems had taken
over enough for the Falcon to do what little we needed it to do.

I feigned surprise. “You have never guided an
alien spacecraft through a doorway inside a tunnel under the surface of a moon
thousands of lightyears away from Earth?”

“That too, I was talking about guiding the ship
while it is 
sliding
 down a tunnel,
not flying.”

“Pope, you are a real pilot. If you like, I can do
this, so you can blame me if we crash into the door or anything else?”

“
My

aircraft, Sir,” he answered firmly.

“You got it. Releasing gecko grip,” I announced,
deactivating the feature of our landing skids that allowed them to cling to the
tunnel floor.

That part of the tunnel, so close to the cavern,
was not a steep slope, so our wingless Falcon did not rocket forward, it
gradually picked up speed. Pope used the side thrusters to keep us on course
through the doorway, while I puffed the nose thrusters to keep our progress at
a steady pace. As we approached the doorway, the sensors showed we were within
half a meter of the optimum center line, which was great except we only had
half a meter to spare on each side. Pope saw the problem and corrected, that
threw us too far to the other side. “You Ok out there, Skippy?” I asked to burn
off nervous tension.

“Holding for now. Remaining in this condition uses
a lot of power, Joe, I urge you to move quickly.”

“Uh huh, going fast as we can.” We were drifting
off course again. “Uh, Pope-”

“I see it, this is awkward, Sir.”

The nose of the Falcon slid through the doorway
and everything looked great, except we were too far to the right of the
centerline. With a jolt and a screeching sound of tearing composites, the
Falcon hit the doorway and lurched to the right, slowing almost to a halt. We
could not allow the ship to block the doorway. Without waiting to alert Pope, I
blipped the main engines and the Falcon skidded forward, forcing itself to
scrape along the right side of the tunnel and through the inner airlock door.
That doorway had a lip on both sides, the Falcon struck the right-side lip
about three meters behind the cockpit and the tearing sounds got 
really
 loud. Figuring I could not make
the situation any worse, I went all in and goosed the throttle again, forcing
the Falcon forward into the dark cavern beyond the inner doorway. In a tribute
to my sound judgment, everything went great until the Falcon was three quarters
of the way through and something big, heavy and important tore loose behind us.
Whatever it was, it caused an explosion that threw our ship forward and to the
left. The Falcon rolled to the left, the right side skid lifting off the tunnel
floor, then crashing back down to rock side to side. With the synthetic display
provided by Skippy showing the cavern in front of us was clear for at least a
hundred meters and the Falcon no longer being pulled forward by gravity because
the cavern floor was level, I inched the main engine throttles forward again,
only this time the action caused the Falcon to twist to the right. Pope
compensated by firing the starboard nose thrusters hard, heeling us back toward
a straight course. There was a loud BANG behind us as something exploded, and I
hit the emergency button to kill power flow to the engines. We were still
moving forward, skidding across the floor, and stack of what looked like crates
under a tarp loomed in front of us. We had no brakes so Pope engaged the
thrusters in the nose, slowing us enough so the nose hit the stack of crates
just hard enough to knock them over and the Falcon’s nose rode up the stack to
come to a precarious halt.

“Wait, wait,” I held up a hand to stall him as he
was poised to kill main power. The cockpit displays were still working, I
checked our position, making sure we were well clear of the doorway. Success!
We were far enough from the door that we could have flown a Falcon through the
gap, and Skippy said Maxolhx dropships were smaller. “Ok, we’re good, kill the
power before something else blows up.”

Skippy helped a lot by groaning loudly. “Joe, on
behalf of all monkeykind, I am revoking your pilot license.”

“Skippy, I never officially had a pilot license.
Plus, we were not actually flying at the time.”

“The Colonel is correct, Skippy,” Pope agreed
shakily. “Sir, respectfully, if we did not fly together for a long time,” he
threw up his hands, “that would be great.”

“Hey, it worked, didn’t it? Sometimes the brute
force method is appropriate.”

He was not convinced. “If you say so, Sir.”

“It’s a guy thing. Skippy, where are these
dropships?”

“They are in separate hangars along the wall to
your left, give me a minute and I can- Yes!” Lights snapped on in the cavern.

No, there were no individual lights, the entire
cavern ceiling glowed evenly. There were darker areas in the overall glow, like
a section was missing a few pixels or whatever. With the light on, the cavern
was revealed not to be craggy dark rock excavated to form a rough working
space. All the surfaces were smooth, and the cavern was 
big
. Big, like, the far end had to be a kilometer away, and the
center of the domed ceiling was maybe five hundred feet above my head. “Why is
this place so big, Skippy? If the kitties needed all this room, why didn’t they
just inflate a dome on the surface?”

“Structures on the surface of an airless world are
too vulnerable, Joe, especially in a star system like this one, with a greater
than usual amount of comets and meteors drifting around. Incoming rocks hit
harder here because there is no atmosphere to slow them before they impact the
surface, and ejecta thrown up and outward by impacts travels far, wide and
fast. That is why structures like the moonbase we just captured are covered
with a thick layer of regolith.”

“Uh yeah,” I rolled my eyes, “that is a great
safety tip for the vacation place I was thinking of building on the moon. You
didn’t answer my question.”

“I did not answer your question because I do not
yet know the answer, you knucklehead. It is puzzling what the Maxolhx used this
facility for, I am researching. While I am doing that, could you 
please
 move your asses with something
resembling urgency? Holding this door open is becoming a strain.”

Pope and I had been walking through the Falcon’s
cabin while I talked with Skippy, walking quickly as we could with the floor
tilted and the ship still rocking from it precarious perch. Stepping onto the
floor of the cavern, it felt weird. My expectation for a Maxolhx facility was
something fancy, all shiny chrome and glass. Other than the trick ceiling, this
place looked like a warehouse in any large city on Earth. “Um, Skippy, we’re in
a cavern that was kept cold, dry and in low pressure. Why did the Maxolhx cover
things with tarps?”

“It does not make much sense to me either, Joe. My
best guess is simple bureaucratic inertia. The facility technically was not
abandoned, it was mothballed, put in reserve for possible future use. The
procedure for placing a facility in reserve may call for placing protective
covering over everything, whether the items are exposed to weather and dust or
not.”

Wiping my finger along a crate that had been
knocked over by our sliding Falcon, I left a trail in the fine dust. “There is
very little dust, considering how long this place has been here. I just can’t
picture someone like that Mister Snuggles asshole setting down his lunchbox to
throw tarps over all this stuff.”

“That is funny,” the beer can chuckled. “Bots very
likely did most or all of the work, Joe, I do not think the Maxolhx got their
paws dirty with manual labor. The dropship you want is behind Door Number
Three.”

“Like that game show?”

“No, the door is marked with the Maxolhx common
language symbol for the number three, see?” Somehow, he altered the lighting to
shine on a large corrugated door. Apparently, the Maxolhx symbol for three was
three dots arranged vertically. Maybe they had done things Barney-style for
future alien tomb raiders like us. Pope and I shrugged and broke into a trot as
the door slid upward, along with the two doors to the left. In case you were
wondering, the Maxolhx symbol for ‘one’ is a long vertical bar, the symbol for
‘two’ is two short vertical bars stacked one over the other. To the right was a
fourth door, that symbol was the long vertical bar for ‘One’ next to the three
dots of ‘Three’. Barney-style made it easy for me.

“What’s next, Skippy?”

“Pope should get into the dropship cockpit and
begin the start-up sequence, I will walk him through it. You should go through
Door Number One and I will show you which components need to be removed from
that ship, to replace the worn-out parts of the ship we will be flying.”

“We can start that ship before I swap out the
busted parts?”

“Yes, the start-up process is for power generation
and avionics gear. The parts you will be replacing are for attitude control
that is used only in flight. Speaking of 
attitude
,
I am pissed off about being used as a freakin’ doorstop, so get moving,
monkeyboy.”

Pope got the manual steps of the start-up taken
care of, then he came out to help me while Skippy remotely continued bringing
the dropship’s fusion reactor online. Working well as a team under Skippy’s
very detailed directions, we got the required parts replaced and tested. “How
long until this thing can fly, Skippy?” I asked as I closed the hatch covering
the part we just replaced.

“It is going slowly, these systems have not been
used in hundreds of years. My best guess is twenty two minutes until power
reaches the minimum safe level for sustained flight. Do you want me to
entertain you with a story?”

“No, I want you to tell us what other useful parts
we should strip out of the two hangar queens, to keep our bird flying.”

“Oh. That is good thinking, Joe. You should do
that more often.”

 

Seventeen minutes later, the cargo hold of our
bird was littered with components we stripped off the other ships, all we could
get in the short time available. The problem with the door had taken too long
to resolve and we were way behind schedule, above us Simms had to be fretting
at the delay. With more time and more people, we could have taken extra
supplies from the other dropships, but we did not have more people and I wasn’t
willing to risk us being down there any longer than we had to. Pope and I got
into the cockpit and strapped in, fortunately the flight controls could be
adjusted because both of us were shorter than a Maxolhx and when I first
plopped my ass in the seat, I could barely see the holographic display in front
of me. Even at maximum adjustment, Pope had trouble seeing the bottom of his
display. It would have been awkward for me to suggest he sit on something like
a booster seat, so I kept my mouth shut.

The stupid power level meter was moving much too
slowly, and there wasn’t anything we could do about it.

“Aha!” Skippy exclaimed. “Got it. I understand now
why the Maxolhx built this place, and why it had to be so deep under the
surface. It also explains anomalies I found in the star’s behavior. Joe, those
rotten kitties were testing their ability to manipulate stars, they must have
tried to reverse-engineer Elder devices they used as weapons in their brief war
against the Rindhalu.”

“Whoa. The last time they used Elder weapons, they
got their asses stomped by Sentinels. You’re telling me they are stupid enough
to try it again?”

“It’s not the same as last time, Joe. Before, they
misused Elder devices for destructive purposes. This time, they are trying to
make their own devices that are not as sophisticated or powerful, but are based
on the same technology. If the Maxolhx can make a star go nova without relying
on Elder devices, it is possible that the Sentinels might not interfere, I do
not know their parameters.”

“Did it work? The star is still here.”

“The star is here and still functioning, however
there are anomalies in its internal structure that remain long after the
experiments were discontinued. From what I can tell based on the little
evidence I was able to collect, the Maxolhx were surprisingly successful. This
is a worrisome development, certainly it is not good for the Rindhalu or their
client species. There is nothing to be concerned about in the short or even
medium term, the Maxolhx merely demonstrated they understand the basic
principles of how to collapse a star; they are far, far from being able to create
an effect that could endanger a star. Although, hmm, running calculations here.
I need to create a model and run a couple trillion variables through it. You
two should, I don’t know, talk amongst yourselves or something.”

Pope looked at me. “Talk amongst ourselves? About
what?”

Silently, I held up three fingers, then lowered
them one at a time, counting down. When my index finger was halfway down,
Skippy came back to us.

“Got it! Whew, that was an interesting
intellectual exercise. Wow, after engaging in pure high-level thinking like
that, I feel 
clean
 again. Dealing
with you ignorant monkeys always makes me feel, like, creepy and dirty. No
offense.”

Pope shook his head slowly while I responded. “Why
would we be offended by that?”

“Oh, goodie,” he said cluelessly.

“What did the Maxolhx do?” I asked as I watched
the power meter moving upward with agonizing slowness. “Did they iron bomb the
star, something like that?”

“
Iron

bomb? Joe, I would be impressed by your esoteric knowledge of stellar physics,
except I know you got that from Wikipedia. No, dumdum, they did not ‘iron bomb’
the star, doing that requires too much energy to be practical. There are easier
and less energy-intensive ways to disrupt or even kill a star. While we wait
for the power level to reach minimum setting for flight- Here’s a hint, Joe,
staring at the power meter will not make it move any faster- I will give you a
Barney-level explanation of the experiment the Maxolhx were conducting here.
You know that a star keeps its structure by the outward force of its internal
fusion reaction pushing in balance against the inward force of gravity pulling
downward, right? If the fusion fails, gravity will cause a star to collapse,
which compresses the core and can restart the fusion reaction, blah blah blah- 
Why
 am I explaining this to you? Oh,
whatever. Anyway, what the Maxolhx were doing had nothing to do with
manipulating gravity or fusion reactions. Instead, they were monkeying with-
you get the pun there, hee hee, that was funny. They were 
monkeying
 with the star’s magnetic fields, the evidence shows they
were mildly successful in creating minor solar flares. Nothing big enough to
threaten a planet, or even nothing bigger than the flares the star normally
creates by itself. However, these flares were created in a controlled fashion
by the Maxolhx, and that is an impressive accomplishment. If the Maxolhx are
able to scale up their capability, they can use the star’s own magnetic fields
to create a gap where the outward force is temporarily not pushing upward.
Gravity in that area will pull a section of the star inward, collapsing it
toward the core. That effect, if it can be maintained long enough, like for a
few minutes-”

“
Minutes
?”
I was stunned. “That’s all it takes to kill a freakin’ star?”

“Yes, Joe. Basically, once the effect is started,
the star kills itself by the unbalanced forces tearing the star apart. I
suspect the Maxolhx were not trying to actually kill a star, more likely they
wish to use solar flares as a weapon of mass destruction. What they could do is
turn off the effect before it fatally damages the star, the result would be a
controlled, focused and massive solar flare. A solar flare that could be
 aimed 
at a planet.”

“Holy shit. Hey!” Something in my memory was
standing on a chair waving its hand and shouting to get my attention. “You did
something like that during our second mission, when we got ambushed by that
Thuranin destroyer squadron. You created a hole in a star, then released it.
That created a solar flare that wasted those enemy ships.”

“Er, yeah, sort of. Joe, what I did back then was
create a very minor, localized effect,” Skippy explained. “It 
looked
 impressive on the display, and it
sure cooked those destroyers. However, that little flare dissipated quickly and
would not have posed any threat to a planet, not even a planet orbiting close
to the star. You do get bonus points for connecting the dots, for you are
correct, the effect I used back then is basically related to the experiment the
Maxolhx conducted here. Also, um, I must confess that I kind of hurt myself
back then. Even for me, digging a hole in a star is a major strain. The stress
came close to making me lose connection to higher spacetime. Before I try a
whacky stunt like that again, I will need to exhaust all other possibilities,
and be very, 
very
 careful if there is
no other option. And, hey, the power level is now just past the minimum. See?
When you stop watching, it moved faster.”

“Great!” I clapped my hands. “Pope, let’s get this
thing off the ground.”

 

The simulator Skippy created for us was damned
good, our shiny new used dropship’s performance closely matched the
simulations. The difference could be attributed to that particular ship’s age
and condition, not to any failure on Skippy’s part. We carefully flew the bird
past our busted Falcon, I avoided looking at its scarred right side. Through
the inner and then outer doors, with the amazing Maxolhx technology keeping us precisely
two meters off the floor of the cavern and then the tunnel. Once the tail was
clear of the outer door, Pope set us down and held the ship in place while I
ran out to get Skippy.

“Wait, Joe!” He warned. “How do you plan to do
this? You can’t get close to me, the mass effect I am creating is very
localized. You need to stay twenty feet or more away, or you will get pulled
toward me. As soon as I release the effect, this stupid door will slam closed,
so we will only get one shot at this.”

“I gotcha covered, Skippy.” From my belt, I pulled
the rope. “There is a fancy Thuranin basket grappler doodad on the end of this
rope.”

“Doodad?”

“Call it a thingamajig if you like. It’s sticky
nanofibers. I’m going to toss this thing above you, it will fall down and get
itself tangled around you, it is designed to wrap around awkwardly-shaped
objects, so it does not need to stick to your shiny can.”

“I would appreciate that. Ok, give it a try.”

It took me three tries before the doodad fell down
over him. The first two times, the weird local gravity field he made caused my
aim to be off. That’s my story and I’m sticking to it. The third time, it got securely
wrapped around itself, with Skippy inside the tangled mess and the rope on my
end. “Ready?” I hauled back on the rope and it stretched tight. “Wait!”

“Wait for what?”

“I want another moment to enjoy seeing you as a
doorstop. You are 
awfully
 cute.”

He released the mass effect without warning me and
I fell backward on my ass, my weight pulling him clear of the door even in the
moon’s lower gravity. When I rocked back upward, the recoiling rope pulled his
can to smack into my chest, sending me tumbling over again and him to go
spinning off careening around the tunnel. At least I was smart enough to have
the rope clipped to my flightsuit belt so I didn’t lose him, and by the time I
got myself sorted out and reeled him in, the outer door had slammed closed with
a force that shook the tunnel and caused moondust to rain down from the
ceiling.

 
Inside our
shiny new used Maxolhx dropship, with me in the copilot seat and Skippy still
wrapped up in the sticky fiber strands on the deck between couches, I rechecked
the power systems while Pope gently lifted us off the tunnel floor to hover in
the center of the shaft. “Is everything Ok, Skippy?”

“It is now. When I first programmed the autopilot
to fly us up the tunnel it responded with ‘you want me to do 
what
’? It has settled down now, I
overwrote some pesky lines of code to make the flight computer more compliant.
We are good to go but, 
please
 Joe, do
not touch the controls. You wrecked the last ship you were flying.”

 

We shot out of the tunnel entrance, soaring above
the still-radioactive crater. “
Dutchman
,
this is Bishop, I need a sitrep.” Simms would have notified me of any serious
problem, otherwise she knew not to contact me while we were in the tunnel.

“No sign of enemy activity anywhere in the system,
the Falcon with Smythe’s team is seven minutes from docking with us,” she
reported crisply, giving me all the facts I needed.

“Outstanding. Simms, I am terribly sorry. I wanted
to get you a nice snowglobe from the gift shop down in that cavern, but all
they had was this stupid dropship.”

“I will control my disappointment, Sir. Um,” she
must have been checking sensor data. “The Falcon you flew down there will not
be joining us? What happened?”

Skippy answered for me. “Do not 
ever
 let Joe fly anything. He should not
be driving either.”

“We, uh, 
I
,
crashed the Falcon. That was after we sliced parts off it to fit through a doorway
the beer can should have told us about. Technically, it wasn’t a crash because
the Falcon was sliding on its skids at the time. It’s a long story. I am sure
Skippy is eager to tell you all about his new career as a doorstop.”

The beer can objected to that. “Hey! You 
jerk
, I should-”

“He is auditioning to be a paperweight next.”

“Colonel,” Simms spoke before Skippy could
respond. “That Falcon is full of human DNA.”

“Yeah, that’s not going to be a problem.”

“Sir? It’s not a problem? How is that?”

“Because, Simms, remember, we are going to drop a
nuke down that tunnel. And another nuke on that moonbase. It’s not like using
two more nukes will get us into more trouble.”

There was a pause before she replied. No doubt she
was wondering how she had gone from a career as a logistics officer, to somehow
nuking alien moons. “I will get the crew working on loading two nukes into
missiles, Sir.”

“There is no one alive in that cavern, and we
can’t leave any witnesses at the moonbase,” I assured her.

“It’s not loss of life that concerns me. We are
using nuclear weapons in a way that seems almost, 
casual
. I do not think that is a good thing. We shouldn’t get used
to it.”

“I hear you, Simms,” her discomfort with flinging
nukes around mirrored my own thoughts on the subject. The difference was, I was
the commander, so I had to keep my doubts to myself. “Think of a nuke as our
way to leave a zero-star review of the crappy gift shop in that cavern.”

That made her laugh. “Yes, Sir.”

“Besides, Skippy wants revenge on that stupid
door.”

“That’s a fact, Jack!” The beer can agreed with
enthusiasm. “I’ll show that door who is the boss, huh? Who Da Man? Skippy,
that’s who!”

 

We dropped a nuke down the tunnel, and another in
the center of the moonbase, before we jumped away. “Colonel?” Simms prodded me in
a whisper while she stood beside the command chair. “We accomplished the
impossible, 
again
, and none of our
people were injured. Now we have a Maxolhx dropship just like we wanted. Yet you
do not look happy.”

“It’s Ok. I am pleased that the mission succeeded
despite all the curveballs the universe threw at us again as usual. It’s just
that,” I sighed. “We have a dropship. That only means we can tackle the next
impossible task, and we don’t have a workable plan yet.”

“It will take us,” she glanced at the main
display, “fifteen days to reach the pixie factory. That is plenty of time to
dream up a plan,” she added with a wink.

“Yeah. No pressure, then.”

“If Adams were here right now, would she say
something about sucking it up and getting your ass in gear? Our Marine Corps
sergeant is tactful like that.”

“
Gunnery

sergeant,” I looked up at my executive officer. “Not ‘sergeant’, she gave me an
earful about that. Yes, she would make an inspirational speech to get my ass in
gear. All right, Simms, you have the conn,” I rose from the chair. “Time for me
to start working. I’ll be in the gym if you need me.”

“The gym?”

“I think better when I’m moving. Or doing anything
other than trying to think.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER NINETEEN

 

“What’s wrong, Joe?” Skippy asked, his avatar
affecting a concerned look. “You should be happy! The last mission was
successful despite nearly everything going wrong, and we have a Maxolhx
dropship, plus plenty of spare parts. I 
never

thought we would get this far.”

“This far isn’t good enough, that’s the problem,”
I answered with one elbow on the table, my chin resting on my fist. I was
moping and I knew it and I didn’t care. “We don’t even know if those ships have
started traveling to Earth yet, and we don’t have a way to get the pixies we
need to track those ships. What’s the point of trying if I know we have zero
chance to succeed in the end?”

“You’re giving up already? Let me rephrase that;
 you
 are giving up?”

“Uh, NO. We may fail, but no way am I going to Dee
Oh Arr.”

“Um, what?”

“D.O.R. Come on, Skippy, you know military slang.
Drop On Request. The people on Smythe’s team qualified for special operations
because they were pushed to their limits and were offered multiple
opportunities to drop out, and they 
didn’t
.
Those people do not know the meaning of ‘quit’.”

“You did not qualify for special ops, Joe.”

“I know that, and thank you 
so
 much for reminding me. I never considered applying for the
Rangers, because I know I am not mentally tough enough for that training.”

“Joe, astonishing as it may seem, and I am
astonishing myself for saying this, but you are mentally tough. Or, hmm,” he
mused. “Maybe it’s just that you are very stubborn. Or, maybe you’re just too
stupid to know when to quit. You never give up, even when you totally should.”

That remark made me lift my chin up and sit back
in my chair. “What do you mean? There were times when I 
should
 have given up? Like when?”

“Like, right from the start, 
duh
. Joe, you are trying to assure that Earth is safe forever. That
is an unrealistic, a hopeless goal. No way can that happen. I told you, even if
by some freakin’ miracle you succeed in chasing the two Maxolhx ships away, and
through another 
never
-going-to-happen
miracle you somehow fix it so the Maxolhx lose interest in going to Earth in
the future, your species is skuh-
rewed
,
dude. Less than sixty years from now, the entire galaxy will know the wormhole
to Earth did not really go dormant and they will be racing each other to get to
your home planet. The purpose of their visit will 
not
 be to try the latest mystery-meat version of a chalupa at Taco
Bell.”

“Chalupas are delicious, Skippy, but I get your
point. You 
want
 me to give up? If I
had given up before, we wouldn’t have a cool Maxolhx dropship in a docking
bay.”

“Uh huh, and what good does that do for you? You
monkeys risked everything on an operation that could have gone sideways at any
point, and all you have is a senior-species dropship you don’t have a use for.”

“We do have a use for it, all we need to do it-
Huh. Crap. I was talking about giving up, now you’ve got me determined not to
do that. Did you use reverse psychology on me?”

“Not that you know of, Joe,” he chuckled. “I am
not sure I did you a favor, because you are setting yourself up for crushing
disappoint at the very least.”

“Uh, what? At the very least? What do you mean by
that?”

“I mean, you could seriously screw up and make the
situation much, 
much
 worse for
humanity.”

“Crap. Thanks for the vote of confidence.”

“Just being realistic, based on your track
record.”

“How about I worry about being realistic, and you be
nice and tell me happy feel-good bullshit that lifts my spirits?”

“Oh, sure, Joe. Everything will be all right,” he
said in a slow, mechanical way, going through the motions. “A journey of a
thousand miles begins with a single step. Keep your chin up, although if you’re
in a fight I think you want to keep your chin 
down
? Um, what else?”

I should have known better than to ask him to
cheer me up. “That, that’s enough for now, I feel 
so
 much better.”

“Oh, goodie. So, inspired by encouraging words,
you have a plan for breaking into those ultra-secure vaults to steal a set of
pixies?”

“No, because we both agree that is impossible.”

“
Ugh
.
Was me telling you those happy feel-good cliches just a waste of my time?”

“Right, because 
that
 is what we need to focus on.” Slapping my laptop closed, I stood
up. “It’s my turn in the galley tonight. Maybe making dinner for the crew will
inspire me.”

It didn’t.

 

Not only did serving dinner not inspire me, Skippy
woke me up just as I was drifting off to sleep that night. “Hey, Joe, are you
asleep?”

“I’m not asleep 
now
,” I mumbled while throwing the pillow over my head. “Unless the
reactor is about to explode, can it wait until morning?”

There was a pause, and I began to hope for
blissful sleep, then he spoke in a low, sad voice. “I miss Margaret.”

Oh shit. Skippy being despondent because Adams not
part of the current crew was not an immediate crisis like an exploding reactor,
but I had to talk with him because he was hurting and, damn it, he is my
friend. Keeping the frustrated sigh I felt inside me so he wouldn’t know I was
annoyed at his lousy timing, I stuffed the pillow behind my head and sat partly
up. Seeing I was awake, his avatar shimmered to life above a cabinet. “I miss
her too, Skippy.”

“Yeah, sure,” his tone was bitter. “You miss a
valuable member of the crew, and you miss her giving you ideas even if she
wasn’t trying to. 
I
 miss Margaret as
a friend.”

“Uh, I miss her as a, a friend too.”

He sighed. “You really blew it, Joe.”

“Uh, what do you mean?”

“On this mission, you really are a pirate. Your
silly military regulations don’t apply. If Margaret were here, the two of you
would be free to-”

“Whoa!” Now I was fully awake. Crap. It was going
to take me a while to fall back asleep. “Military regs are not silly, Skippy,
they are there to ensure good order and discipline in a fighting force. 
Fighting
, you understand that? We carry
weapons because our job is to kill people and take territory away from them,” I
repeated a line I heard in Basic Training. “I have to order people into
situations that are dangerous, situations where I know some people will get
killed. Commanders are not allowed to fraternize with their troops because that
could lead to favoritism,” I explained, and as I said it, I was struck by how
inadequate the word ‘fraternize’ could be. Feeling sympathy with enemy
prisoners of war was perhaps a good use of the word ‘fraternize’. Being 
in love
 with someone under your command
required a term stronger and more focused. Whatever.

“I do not see why that matters, Joe,” he insisted.
“You have ordered Margaret to perform missions when you knew she might be
injured or killed; you did not keep her safely aboard the ship when others were
taking risks.”

“That is because she would not have accepted
remaining behind, Skippy. And this conversation is getting into dangerous
territory, I want to drop the subject, Ok? Yeah, technically I am a pirate and
the military Code of Conduct does not apply. But we are acting as if the rules
do apply, because that is what the team is used to and because it 
works
. The rules are there for a reason,
to put the mission first, you understand that? If Adams were here, nothing
would change. I would still be her commanding officer.”

“But-”

“No ‘buts’, Skippy. 
Adams
 would consider me to be her CO, and I would too, and that’s
the end of it. How about we agree we both miss her?”

“Ok. Thank you, Joe, I needed to talk about it.”

“No problem, man,” I reached out to offer him a
fist bump, and his avatar floated over to complete the gesture.

“Good night, Joe, sleep well,” his avatar faded
away.

Yeah, I thought, as if I could get to sleep after
that conversation.

 

The next morning, I was in a foul mood. Not angry,
just depressed. The ship was jumping toward the planet where the Maxolhx
manufactured pixies, and I did not have a plan for how to sneak us through the
sensor fields around that planet. The operation at the moonbase was high risk,
a heist of pixies would be the riskiest op we had ever attempted. We could not
afford screw-ups. While putting on my uniform, I called the beer can. “Skippy,
that whole operation at the moonbase was a mess. 
Nothing
 went right.”

“Except for the part about us getting a Maxolhx
dropship in prime, well, good, Ok, crappy but mostly, Ok, barely flyable
condition. And your secret didn’t get exposed. And no monkeys were killed.”

“That isn’t the point. Smythe’s team, and us in
that cavern, we had to make adjustments on the fly because of problems we
should have anticipated, like a patrol of fighters disrupting the sensor field,
or problems we should have avoided, like losing that power regulator thing, or
Smythe’s team making the crawler too heavy to climb that ravine.”

“I completely agree, Joe. Whoever planned that op
has a 
lot
 to answer for. What a
moron.”

“Hey! 
You

should have-”

“It’s a good thing this crew is not a democracy,
Joe, because if you were up for re-election after this latest near fiasco, you
wouldn’t stand a chance.”

“Ah, technically, because I disobeyed orders and
stole the ship, 
again
, we really are
pirates. I read somewhere that pirates crews used to choose their officers.”

“Really? That is 
IN-ter-esting
,” he dragged the word out.

“Whatever. Before we launch the op to steal the
pixies, we need to consider everything that could go wrong, and have a backup
plan.”

“
Everything

that could go wrong? Joe, you will not only need a Plan B for every phase of
the operation, you will also need backup Plans C through Z.”

“If that’s what it takes, then that’s what we do.
Hey,” I cut him off before he could protest. “I’ve been thinking about the
cover story we need. The report can’t just state those Maxolhx ships found
nothing useful about the wormhole, it also needs to contain something that will
make the Maxolhx not interested in a return visit to Earth.”

“Ooh, ooh,” Skippy hooted excitedly. “I can post
on TripAdvisor a one-star review of Earth.”

“Skippy,” for a second I had actually hoped he was
being helpful.

“No, you’re right, a one-star rating meant the
reviewer cared enough to 
really
 hate
it. Earth isn’t a place anyone hates, it’s just so ‘
meh
’ that nobody could possibly work up the energy to care about
that ball of mud. Earth is the kind of place you fly to, take a taxi along a
highway lined with office parks to some anonymous suburban hotel for a
conference on dental adhesives and when you are ready to fly back, you realize
you have 
no
 idea what city or state
you are in because all the chain restaurants are the same as every other city.
See, Earth is the place where, a couple years later, you are looking at
vacation photos and you are like ‘was that Earth or that other place that I
also can’t remember’? Yeah, what I should do is leave a 
two
-star rating, with a comment that it might have received three
stars except the hotel pillows were lumpy.”

Slapping a palm over my face, I mumbled “Do you
have an idea that might actually work?”

“Hey, you jerk,” the beer can objected. “I’m doing
the best I can here, what have you-”

“How about we focus on useful ideas, Ok? Something
that will make all starfaring species in this galaxy totally uninterested in
making the long trip to Earth. Uh, hey!” I slapped the desk. “I got it. The
best part of this idea is,” I grinned and flashed a thumb’s up at his avatar,
“it is partly true. I read somewhere that the best lies contain a kernel of
truth.”

“That is what all political campaigns are based
on, Joe,” he agreed. “What is this fabulous idea that suddenly popped into your
monkey brain?”

“It’s simple. We have the Maxolhx ship report that
the Kristang and humans on Earth got into a firefight when the lizards tried to
take over, humans nuked the Kristang, the lizards retaliated, and Earth is now
a radioactive wasteland. So, there’s no reason to go there,” I finished with a
satisfied grin, leaning back in my chair.

“No, dumdum, that may be your stupidest idea this
week. Although it would have to be pretty dumb just to be your most moronic
idea of 
today
. We can’t do that,
because you would certainly be giving other species a reason to go there.”

“What?” The beer can had to be screwing with me.
“Who the hell would want a radioactive wasteland?”

“
Nobody

does, that’s the point, Joe. Damn, do I have to explain 
everything
 to you? If there was a case of nuclear weapons damaging
a biosphere, in direct and flagrant violation of The Rules, that would
certainly prompt a joint investigation by the Maxolhx and the Rindhalu. So, if
you want both senior species stopping by your home planet to investigate and
then, you know, actually nuking it into a glowing cinder, go right ahead and do
that stupid thing you suggested.”

His snarkiness pissed me off, so I argued with
him. “What if the report showed that only humans used the nukes? There would be
no point trying to punish us for violating The Rules, our species would already
be dead.”

“Joe, Joe, Joe,” he shook his ginormous hat sadly.
“You need to come into Mad Doctor Skippy’s medical bay for a checkup, I suspect
you can’t actually hear the stupid ideas coming out of your mouth. First,
dumdum, the senior species 
could

punish humanity, by exterminating the humans on Paradise. Unless you don’t care
about them? You do? Ok, then think about this as the second reason your idea is
plainly idiotic; the Rindhalu coalition would 
love
 to find evidence that the Kristang at Earth also violated The
Rules, and the Maxolhx would be eager to dispute any such conclusions, so both
sides would be scrambling to get there first before the other side could plant
or cover up evidence. Did that answer your brain-dead question?”

“Yes,” I said quietly as I could.

“What? I didn’t hear you. Was that a yes?”

“You know it was,” I sighed. “How about we have a
new rule; I get to ask one stupid question per day, without being mocked by
you?”

“Ha! You would burn that privilege before your
first cup of coffee in the morning. Forget it, Joe. Mocking you is my reward
for suffering through the moronic babble that your brain dreams up. And it is
your punishment for laziness; if you put 
any

effort into thinking through your questions, you would answer them yourself
without wasting my time. Here’s a hint; try using logic, it works great.”

 

Even while trying to develop a plan to save
humanity, I needed to deal with mundane personnel issues. Fortunately, we had a
small crew of well-disciplined people, so I rarely had anything to worry about
concerning the crew. However, an issue came to my attention, and technically it
did involve a member of the crew, even if his unofficial rank in the database
was Asshole First Class. “Uh, Skippy, this might be an awkward question,” I
called him from my office with the door closed, because it was a somewhat
delicate matter.

“
Ugh
,”
he was thoroughly disgusted. “Is this about the birds and the bees 
again
? All right, but you take notes
this time while I explain it. Your parents should have-”

“This question will be awkward for 
you
, not me.”

“
Me
? Ha!
As if!” He got a good laugh out of that. “What question could a monkey ask that
could possibly embarrass-”

“Listen, do you have a crush on Lieutenant Frey?”

“Whaaaaat?” The high-pitched nervous flutter in
his voice did not persuade me of his innocence. “No way, dude. I am strictly 
PRO
-fessional. Why would you think
something crazy like that?”

“Because you sure act like you have a crush on
her. I’m not the only one who has noticed.”

“Hey, well, 
excuuuuuse

me for trying to make the new crew member feel welcome.”

“Do all the new crew members have a bot to turn
down their bed covers at night?”

“Um-”

“I don’t see a mint on 
my
 pillow before I go to sleep.”

“Well, that’s just-”

“Colonel Simms says one of your bots has been
clipping fresh gardenias from the hydroponics, and putting them into a vase in
Frey’s cabin.”

“Jeez, can’t a guy just-”

“Just what?” I folded my arms and leaned back in
my chair. “I can’t wait to hear you talk your way out of this one, beer can.”

“Fine,” he pouted. “Maybe I 
do
 like Katie a little better than most of you other monkeys. You
know why, Mister Nosy?”

“Because she is pretty?”

“Oh, come on, Joe,” he chuckled, in a way that
again was not convincing. “As if I consider any of your weird species to be
attractive. Puh-
lease
, dude, I like
Katie because she is 
nice
 to me.”

“Uh, what?”

“Nice. You know, 
nice
? Like, not calling me ‘beer can’ and not thinking I am
clueless and ridiculous sometimes.”

Crap. Skippy was way too often clueless and ridiculous.
If I tried to protest, he would analyze my heartrate or eye movements or
whatever and know I was lying. Maybe Frey just didn’t have enough contact with
Skippy to be jaded like the rest of us.

Before my slow brain could grind out a reply,
Skippy continued. “The other morning, she sang a duet with me while she was in
the shower. She pretended a hairbrush was a microphone, and-”

“Skippy!” I closed my eyes. “It would really help
if I did not have to think of 
any

female crew members in the shower, if you don’t mind.” Aaaaaand right then, my
traitorous brain popped up a vivid image of a woman, none of your business
which woman, in the shower, with warm soapy water cascading over her shoulders
and running down between-

“Ok, how about guys in the shower?”

“Ugh, not the guys either, please. Ok, I am sorry,
it is great that the two of you get along so well. Sorry I mentioned it, I
apologize.” The only thought in my confused brain was; how bad was Frey’s taste
in music, that she enjoyed Skippy’s singing?

 

So, I asked her. She was getting coffee in the
galley and I walked over to stand by the coffee pot. “Good morning, Frey,” I
said in what was supposed to be a neutral tone.

Being in special operations apparently had given
her Ninja lie detector skills, or she also had a Spidey sense for trouble.
“Good morning, Sir,” she peered a me over taking a sip of coffee. “What’s
wrong?”

“Nothing,” I was instantly on the defensive.
“Just, uh,” I jerked my head to indicate we should go to a quiet corner of the
galley to talk. She sat down across the table from me. “Skippy tells me you
like to sing in the shower with him?” That was said with a nervous glance at
the ceiling. Nagatha was supposed to be covering for me, so Skippy could not
hear the conversation.

Her eyebrows flew up and she set the coffee mug
down firmly. “Skippy tells you what I do in the 
shower
?” She hissed a bit too loudly, other people turned to look
at us. Her hands closed around the mug until her knuckles turned white. “He had
better not be taking pictures, or that little-”

“No pictures,” I waved my hands in a downward
gesture to keep her voice low. “And no details. Just, he mentioned you are nice
to him, and,” I spread my hands on the table, “one thing he likes is you sing
with him while you’re in the shower. So, uh,” I really was trying 
not
 to think of her in the shower but my
stupid brain was not getting the memo. “I was wondering, you actually enjoy
Skippy’s singing?”

“No, eh?” She laughed. “
I
 like to sing, and, um, you’ve heard me at karaoke night?”

Indeed I had. Lieutenant Katie Frey had many
talents, singing was not one of them. Wisely, all I did was nod.

“I invited him to sing with me, because when I’m
in the shower, I really can’t hear him,” she explained. “It makes him happy,
without me having to listen, you know?”

“Crap,” I slapped my forehead. “Why didn’t 
I
 think of that?”

“You won’t tell him my secret?” She asked with a
fearful glance at the ceiling.

“Hell, Frey,

I
 would like to start singing duets with him in the shower so I wouldn’t
have to listen to him sing other times, except he would get suspicious. Keep
doing what you’re doing and I won’t say a word.”

She tilted her head. “Can I ask why you wanted to know,
Sir?”

“Truth? I couldn’t believe any sane person would
want to hear Skippy sing.”

 

 

Lunch that day was good, not just sandwiches this
time, but something about it made me suspicious. After I finished and put my
plate in the tray to be washed, I walked to a cargo bay where Simms had a sort
of office. Normally, the bay would be stacked to the ceiling with crates, this
time there were only three lonely crates sitting in a corner. Simms had a tough
time letting go of acting as our logistics officer in addition to my XO,
despite Nagatha being fully ready to handle logistics. “Hello, Sir,” she barely
looked up from her tablet.

“How is the garden?” I started with small talk.
The previous morning, I had worked in the hydroponics garden and the little
plants appeared to be growing well, the science team amateur biologists working
there were pleased. But they did not have years of experience growing food in
space, Jennifer Simms did.

“Well enough. We don’t have enough peppers to eat,
those seeds weren’t aboard when we stole the ship-”

“
Appropriated

the ship,” I insisted. “There’s a difference.”

“Not to the plants there isn’t. We will use the
first two crops of peppers for seeds, then we’ll be all right.”

“Good. Hey, at lunch, I noticed we’ve been serving
a lot of mac and cheese.”

Silently, she stood up and waved a finger for me
to follow her aft, to another cargo bay. This one was half full, and many of
the crates had been opened, I guess so she could inspect the contents and
balance our nutritional needs. Simms knew stuff like that, we were very lucky
to have her aboard. With the toe of her boot, she tapped the side of a crate.
“Somebody dirtside screwed up, and there wasn’t time to fix it before we left.
We got a triple shipment of these boxes, and we need to use up what we have.”
She picked one up and showed it to me. “Pasta shells in white cheddar.”

For some reason I can’t explain, because I do not
know how the sack of mush in my skull works, an old classic rock song popped
into my head, and I made up my own lyrics. “
Shells
in white cheddar, how much did they send? Boxes I’ve eaten, never reaching the
end. Cause I love theeeem, yes I love them. Ohhhhhh how I looooove theeem
-”

Jennifer Simms bowed her head, holding a hand over
her face. Her shoulders were shaking, so I lightly put a hand on her shoulder
to see if she was Ok. She looked up with tears in her eyes, but they were tears
of laughter. She reached up and patted my hand, then squeezed it. Wiping away
tears with the back of a hand, she shook her head. “Thank you for reminding me
why I love being a Merry Pirate.”

“You want to know what is really funny? That is
one of my mother’s favorite songs, and for a long time, like years, I thought
it was about knights. Knights, you know, wearing armor.”

She cocked her head at me. “The song is ‘Nights in
white
 satin
’.”

“Yeah, I thought those knights were wearing white
satin capes over their armor.”

“Seriously? What kind of knights wear satin?”

“What kind of guy sleeps in satin sheets?”

“Porn stars?” She guessed. “That song was written
back in the ‘60s.”

Seeing the crate of fancy mac and cheese got me
worried. “We have too much of this stuff, so maybe we don’t have enough of
something else. Are we missing anything important?”

“No. We’re light on some things, but with the reduced
crew size, we’ll be Ok. I insisted on combat loading, so the ship would be
ready to go at a moment’s notice. What I didn’t expect was not being able to
call down to Earth for any last-minute items we forgot. The garden is the same
size, we even have some improved equipment there. With fewer people being fed
by the garden, we will have plenty of fresh food. This time, we’re trying dwarf
fruit trees like apples, peaches-”

“We could have fresh peaches?”

“I’m hoping so,” she replied with a twinkle in her
eyes.

“I 
love

fresh peaches. Simms, I will be in that garden every day if you need help.”

“
Your

job,” she tapped the name tag on my uniform, “is to stop those ships from
coming to Earth. You do that, and I’ll take care of the garden. We have plenty
of crew who appreciate a break in the garden, and some of the
engineer-scientist types are eager to help me with the garden.”

“Don’t let them take over, Simms. It’s 
your
 garden.”

“Three of them have PhDs in biology and biochem-”

“Yeah, and zero of them have practical experience
growing food aboard a starship.
 Your

garden, your responsibility, your rules. I’ll speak with our unexpected science
team if I need to. While I am happy to have them with us, they are passengers.
They can’t be allowed to compromise operation of the ship.”

“I won’t let that happen.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY

 

If Skippy wasn’t drunk-dialing me in the middle of
the night, my own stupid brain disturbed my sleep. That night, because my
dreams are meaningless craziness, I was crawling through a dusty air duct in
Willy Wonka’s chocolate factory to steal the secret recipe for, I don’t
remember which recipe. Probably some kind of chocolate. Anyway, the air duct
was dusty and I sneezed, which attracted the attention of the Oompa-Loompas
working in the place, only these were not happy, friendly Oompa-Loompas. These
were Oompa-Loompas whose car had broken down on the way to work, in the rain,
and they were already in a bad mood because their brother is crashing on their
couch because he can’t find a job after getting out of prison for dealing meth 
again
, and they hate their jobs because
they are 
so
 sick of making chocolate.
They were pissed off and looking to hit something and that something was me. As
they chased me through the factory, they somehow turned into Vampire-Loompas
and I ran through a part of the factory that was not making chocolate. This
part of the factory was making new Vampa-Loompas, and as the freshly-made ones
came off the end of the assembly line, they looked at me and-

Hey, I told you my dreams don’t make sense.

Anyway, that dream woke me up at 0447, which is
nice because I got most of a good night’s sleep. “Skippy,” I called out,
knowing he was awake.

His avatar popped to life immediately, then put a
hand over its eyes and blinked out.

“Uh, Skippy, what the hell was that? Where did you
go?”

“
Wheeew
,”
his voice came from the ceiling speaker. “Rough night, I guess? Joe, you look
like you got run over by the Ugly Truck, then it backed up over your face a
couple times to make sure. There’s a big red mark on your right cheek from
sleeping on your hand.”

“Huh. That explains why that hand is asleep,” I
shook it, feeling pins and needles as it came back to life. “Hey,” I yawned and
staggered over to the sink, splashing water on my face. “It’s impossible to
steal one of these pixie things, those vaults are way too secure.”

“Joe, you always say things are impossible, until
you figure out some off-the-wall way to make it happen.”

“Not this time. This time, if I do think up a way
to do it, it will be way too risky. Forget about the vaults where pixies are
stored. Being at that moonbase got me thinking. The Bosphuraq were in that star
system to 
make
 something;
atomic-compression warheads. Where do the Maxolhx make new pixies? They are not
manufactured in the vaults where they store them, are they?”

“Of course not. They are made in sort of a
factory. A very secure factory.”

“Yeah, good, I am sure the Maxolhx are very
careful to keep track of new pixies that they can use. When the Maxolhx make
blank pixies, do they all work properly? Or do they have to throw out some of
them that got screwed up during the manufacturing process?”

“Aha! No, no, no, no, NO! Not 
this
 time, Smart Guy. You think we can sneak around the back door
of the factory, and steal discarded pixies from a dumpster in the alley? Ha! No
way, Jose. Pixies get discarded because they don’t work, dumdum. We need
functional pixies, in case you have not been keeping up with current events.
Your idea doesn’t sound so smart now, does it, Mister Jerkface?”

Sitting in my underwear was awkward, so I pulled
on the pants I had worn the previous day. “You haven’t heard my idea yet.”

“Oh. Um, I am very embarrassed. Please enlighten
me.”

“Out of a batch of a hundred pixies they make, how
many are good?”

“Um, I do not know where you are going with this,
but that is actually a good question, Joe. Because the Maxolhx copied the
technology from the Rindhalu and do not really understand how quantum-state
pairing works, they throw out on average ninety seven out of a hundred units
during the manufacturing process. Even to get three useful pixies from a
hundred they make, it requires a lot of luck. Sometimes they have to discard an
entire batch. However, as I said, discarded pixies are useless, Joe. Thank you
for your faith in me, but I can’t magically fix the flaws in a broken pixie, in
case that was your brilliant idea.”

“I don’t want you to fix a busted one. I want to
steal a good one off the assembly line.”

“I hate you, Joe. This is the part where I 
should
 be looking forward to mocking you
mercilessly for your stupid idea, but I can’t, because way too many times, you
make me look like a fool by pulling a monkey-brained idea out of your ass. May
I please bring to your attention the fact that we can’t simply steal a pixie,
we have to do it in way that the Maxolhx never know it is missing?”

“Yup, got that.”

“And yet you see no problem with your plan?”

“It’s more of a concept than a plan right now,
Skippy. Let me ask you a question: how do the Maxolhx know there are flaws in a
pixie they are making?”

“Do I need to break this down Barney-style for
you? There is not actually an assembly line like in a factory that makes cars,
but there are several steps in the process to create a pixie. At every step,
there are sensors that examine the item, and compare the current state of the
object to a specified-”

“No, Skippy. The sensors are how the manufacturing
computer knows there are flaws. How do the 
Maxolhx

themselves know?”

“Because,” he replied very slowly, “the computer
tells them. I feel like adding a ‘duh’ here would be almost too-”

“Uh huh. So, if the computer doesn’t tell the
Maxolhx about a flaw, they won’t know?”

“Man, I am going to run out of ‘duhs’ if you
keep-”

“Yes or no?”

“Yes, 
duh
.
What, you think there are Maxolhx wearing hairnets and overalls watching pixies
come down the line, and throwing out the bad ones? Of course the computer
handles the whole process. Why does that matter?”

“This computer is an AI?”

“Yes. The Maxolhx have AIs that are quite
sophisticated, although of course compared to me or even one of my little
subminds, it- Oh.
 Oh
.”

“You get it now, Skippy?”

“I think so. You want me to hack into the AI that
controls the factory, and make it 
think

a good pixie actually has a flaw. Then, when this good pixie gets discarded, we
take it, and the Maxolhx never know a useable pixie ever went missing. Is that
it?”

“Yes.”

“Joe, that actually 
is
 brilliant. This plan has the advantages of being clever 
and
 devious. I like it! Hey, and, 
bonus
, you can get a headstart on that
life of crime I keep recommending you try.”

“Skippy, I committed mutiny and stole a starship,
I’ve got the life of crime thing covered.”

“Hmm, stealing a starship is the mark of a
criminal genius, Joe. If we ever get back to Earth, you should build a secret
headquarters inside a volcano.”

“That volcano thing never worked for the villains
in James Bond movies. No, I will set up my criminal lair inside a Starbucks.”

“A Starbucks?” He laughed.

“Yeah. There’s like, a million Starbucks on the planet.
The police would never find me. Ok, so tell me about this factory or whatever
it is. Will it be as difficult to get in and out of as the vaults are?”

“No. However, you know what I’m going to say
next?”

“Oh, crap. Is it ‘well heh heh you’re not going to
like this’?”

“Joe, you are not as dumb as you look.”

 

He told me about the ‘factory’ where Paired
Quantum-State Interchangers were made, and it sure did sound like one hell of a
difficult target. Not as tough as the vaults, but still impossible. The first
impossible part was getting anywhere near the factory, even with Skippy
enhancing the stealth of a dropship, we would be detected before we got
anywhere close to the target. “It really does seem impossible to get into that
factory. How are we going to do that?”

“Egg-
zactly
,”
the beer can said unhelpfully.

“Well, yeah, that was a question.”

“It’s a 
good

question.”

“No, that was a question I was asking 
you
.”

“Well, it’s impossible, Joe. I have learned that
when something is impossible, I should outsource the job to a monkey. Monkeys
are too stupid to recognize when something is impossible, so they charge right
ahead. Really, stubborn stupidity is kind of your species’ superpower.”

“Great. Um, maybe we could do something like
create a diversion, like on another planet in that star system.”

“Nuh uh, no way, dude. We need to do the 
opposite
 of a diversion. We need the
Maxolhx to think there is absolutely nothing different or unusual or
interesting going on the day we break in to steal their priceless pixies. If
those rotten kitties think there is 
any

potential threat to the facility, they will lock it down tight and no one and
nothing will get in or out. The facility that produces pixies is one of the
most secure sites the Maxolhx have anywhere in the galaxy.”

“Well, shit.”

“Well, shit, indeed. You need to put your thinking
cap on, Joe.”

“Come on, throw me a bone, will ya? Give me
something to work with.”

“I don’t know what you expect me to do, Joe. So
far, your plan is for me to somehow hack into a senior species AI, which I
can’t do.”

“Whoa. Wait just a minute, you arrogant beer can.
You keep telling us you are so God-like smart, yet you can’t hack into a puny
little computer?”

“Nothing about a Maxolhx AI is puny, you ignorant
monkey. Wait! Before you hurl more lame insults at me, let me be clear about
what the problem is. If I could get into contact with that AI, for sure I could
take complete control of it and the Maxolhx would never know anything unusual
happened. The problem is not my capabilities, it is a lack of physical access.
Joe, to take over the AI in that factory, I need access to it. That means going
in there, and I can’t do that.”

“Oh. Hell, Skippy, is it that difficult? Can’t we
get you close, and you expand your reach through higher spacetime, or some
sciency bullshit like that? When we went to Earth that first time, you used
that ability to take over the two Kristang ships there. Your range for doing that
is like, halfway to the moon, right?”

“I do have that awe-inspiring ability, yes.”

“Great,” I slapped the desk happily. “Then-”

“Then nothing, dumdum. I can’t use that ability
here. Not 
here
 here, I mean at that
factory. Joe, that facility is one of a very few places in the galaxy where my
presence could be detected by lowly biological trashbags like the Maxolhx. I
create a local disturbance in the quantum connection between spacetime layers.
The mechanisms that create pixies also rely on multi-dimensional physics. If I
expanded my presence to encompass the space occupied by the AI there, I would
disrupt the delicate mechanisms in the factory, and no way could the Maxolhx
not notice that. Screwing with those mechanisms would cause the factory to lock
down.”

“Damn it!” That was majorly bad news. Most of the
crazy stunts we had pulled off on our missions relied on Skippy’s incredible
abilities. Without our magical beer can, how could we break into an
ultra-secure place controlled and closely monitored by a senior species and
their most powerful AIs? Unless we could get Skippy inside-

“Hey,” I snapped my fingers. “We 
don’t
 need your presence to be inside
that factory.”

“We don’t?”

“No. All we need is for you to connect to that
AI.”

“Uh, yeah,

duh
. That’s the problem. I can’t expand my presence through higher
spacetime, and between physical barriers and electromagnetic countermeasures,
the Maxolhx have absolutely prevented any communications channel from outside.
There is no way for me to transmit a signal through-”

“Yeah, blah blah blah, nerdy techie talk. Listen, 
you
 dumdum, we don’t need a channel to
go through concrete walls or whatever. I’m going to have mercy on you and not
keep an idiot in suspense, so here’s what we’re going to do; we get one end of
a microwormhole in there, close to the AI or near its USB port or whatever. The
other end will be here with you. Will that work?”

“Maxolhx AIs do not have USB ports, Joe. However,
hmmm, let me think about this. Ok, OK, mmm, yeah, maybe,” he mumbled to himself.
“Yup. That 
might
 work. Might! Lots of
variables to consider.”

“Gosh, 
that

has never happened before.”

“Don’t be a smartass. This will be super-duper
difficult.”

“But no longer

impossible
. See? You should have more faith, Debbie Downer.”

“Fine, Mister Ray of Sunshine. Tell me how you
propose to get one end of a microwormhole into that facility so I can plug into
the AI.”

“Do it, um, however usually you do it. We just did
the same sort of thing at the Bosphuraq moonbase. If you’re fishing for
compliments, you can forget-”

“As if I would care about a compliment from 
you
. Dude, please. What do you mean,
‘however I usually do it’?”

“You know, you steer the thing, and um,” I
realized the problem. “Ah, shit.”

“Egg-zactly! I never, as you stupidly said, ‘steer
the thing’ except for very slow, very minor adjustments. Moving a microwormhole
on its own causes the event horizon to- oh, why am I trying to explain this to
you? It creates radiation, Joe. A tiny bit of radiation, but any radiation
above the normal background level would be detected and set off alarms inside
the factory. Besides, I can’t steer a microwormhole quickly enough for all the
turns and ups and downs needed to get through the factory to where I need to
access the AI. That is why Colonel Smythe had to carry the microwormhole into
that moonbase, dumdum.”

“Ok, uh, then use one of your bots to carry it.
You can steer a bot, right?”

“Nope.”

“I call bullshit on that. Before Nagatha took
over, you directly controlled all the bots on this ship. You made them walk all
over, inside and outside the ship.”

“Correct-a-mundo, Captain Obvious. The reason I
can’t guide a bot to walk around in the factory is, I can’t contact a bot once
it is inside the factory, which you would know if you had been paying attention
at all. You dumdum.”

“I was paying attention, 
you
 dumdum. The bot will be carrying a microwormhole that provides
instantaneous, secure, undetectable communication between you and the bot. Duh.
Do I have to explain everything to-”

“Wrong again, Captain Oblivious! The microwormhole
will 
not
 be open, until it is near an
access point and I am ready to load my presence into the local AI. As soon as I
expand the microwormhole’s event horizon, it will be detected, because- Well,
there is no point explaining the physics to you. The microwormhole needs to
remain in its most compact form until the last moment. Thus, I can’t use it to
communicate with a bot, until after I no longer need it to control the bot. I
will not bother to add ‘duh’ or ‘dumdum’ because I know you are already saying
those things to yourself.”

Damn it, he was right about that. I am a dumdum.
“Ok, then, um. Hey! Bots are smart, right? Why can’t one of those damned things
guide itself? You can load one of your subminds into-”

“Nuh uh. No way, dude. None of our bots is 
that
 smart, and none of them have the
capacity to contain a submind. If you are going to suggest I simply get a map
of the factory and pre-program a bot for the route it needs to take, forget
that nonsense. We may run into problems that require changing plans along the
way. With the Merry Band of Pirates, I can 
guarantee

we will need to change plans on the fly.”

“Well, hell, then, there is no way to do it?”

“I didn’t say there was 
no
 way. I do know of a mobile, semi-autonomous unit that is capable
of transporting a microwormhole. Its model designation is Monkey Mark 1.”

“Oh shit. You want one of 
us
 to go in there?”

“Probably you should send two monkeys, Joe, in
case one of them runs into serious trouble.”

“I do not love this idea, Skippy.”

“It is 
your

idea, Joe.”

“All right. Is there any way for a monk- a 
human
, to get near an AI access point in
that factory?”

“There is only one way in that I know of. It’s a
small thermal exhaust port-”

 

Fantastic, we were finally making progress. If we
could get a team of monkeys, I mean, Pirates, into the factory, we had a
semi-realistic plan for how to steal a set of blank pixies.

Unfortunately, we did not have a plan to get a
team anywhere near the factory, because security around that planet was too
tight. Skippy reviewed the details with me and I had to agree, it was simply,
absolutely impossible for even a single human to get down to the surface of the
planet where the factory was located. Skippy was not being helpful, it made him
happy to see I agreed it was impossible to get into the factory, because that
meant my whole idea was for nothing. Finally, I snapped at him. “Instead of
telling me everything we 
can’t
 do, how
about we try doing something useful, like, I don’t know. Maybe think up a way
to break into that factory and steal a batch of blank, active pixies?”

“Ok,” he laughed, “sure, why not? Does your plan
involve elves riding unicorns who can instantly teleport from one place to
another?”

“No, it does not,” I snapped, but what he said
reminded me of something, and it was bugging me that I couldn’t pull it from my
foggy memory. “This isn’t getting us anywhere, I should be doing something
useful,” I said as I stood up from my chair. When I got cranky like that, it
was time to take a break. “Talk to you later, Skippy.”

 

Working in the hydroponics gardens always made me
feel better. Simms wasn’t there, both compartments were empty so I had the bay
to myself. The tomatoes were growing well, just thinking about red, ripe
tomatoes made my mouth water. We needed fresh vegetables and fruit to boost our
morale, because living off canned, dried and irradiated food was already getting
monotonous. Simms had been very smart to combat-load the 
Dutchman
’s resupply, so that when we boosted from orbit much
earlier than expected, we were not missing any items that were vital to our
nutritional needs. The quantity of food stored in cargo bays was thin but we
could survive on frozen orange juice for vitamin C, on pills to supply other
vitamins and minerals, all that. Our diet was limited and bland, still it was
way better than the MREs I had survived on way back in Nigeria, or the sludges
of our first mission aboard the 
Dutchman
.

Before going into the gardens, I had scrubbed my
hands and face and put on a white coverall, with a mask over my nose and mouth.
Skippy had assured us his biohazard detectors in the water system and air
filters had not found any organisms dangerous to our precious crops, but we had
to be extra careful on this mission. Our supply of seeds and bulbs and whatever
else plants grew from was very limited and could not be replaced. If any type
of plant died from infection, we would have to go without it until we returned
to Earth. So many people had come aboard the 
Dutchman
 in Earth orbit that Skippy admitted the decontamination
procedures had been rushed, and the Delta Force team had not gone through decon
at all before coming aboard. If even one of them had brought a nasty virus or
bacteria or a crawling mite stuck to the bottom of a boot, our fresh food
supply could be in jeopardy.

Working slowly and carefully, I went up and down
the rows, checking on each plant. Mostly I was keeping my mind off the
impending failure of our mission and the doom of humanity. What I did was
mostly monitoring the nutrient levels in the water, looking at the leaves to verify
there was no yellowing or spots that shouldn’t be there. For sure I was not an
expert, um, what do you call a plant expert? A plant-ologist? That’s not right.
Not a biologist, they study more than plants. Wait, I read it somewhere, uh, a
botonist! That’s it! I remember that from listening to the audiobook of ‘The
Martian’, that astronaut Mark Whatney guy was a botanist. So, I was not an expert
botanist. My knowledge came mostly from helping my mother in the garden back at
home. I remember she had rose bushes near the vegetable garden because roses
can be more susceptible to diseases and will show symptoms before other plants.
One time, the roses got some awful fungus, it caused whitish-gray threads to
grow on the leaves, making them curl-

Threads.

That’s

what I remembered about flying unicorns that could teleport themselves from one
place to another, I read that in a book. Only the book was about dragons, not
unicorns. There was some sort of fungus-like thread stuff in the air, and the
dragons used their fire to burn up the threads before they could reach the
ground. Or something like that, I read that book a long time ago, like I was
young enough to have to look up the meaning of words while I was reading.

Teleporting dragons.

That was the idea I was looking for. “Hey, Skippy,
meet me in my office,” I called out as I trotted for the door, ready to remove
the coveralls and mask.

“I haven’t 
gone

anywhere, dumdum. Fine, my avatar is waiting for you.”

 

“Wait, wait!” His avatar held up a hand before I
could speak in my office. “Let me guess, please. You were all excited when you
called me, and you were in the hydroponics garden, so whatever idea that popped
into your head was inspired by the plants there. Are you planning to grow an
army of mutant ninja tomatoes to sneak into the factory and steal the pixies?’

“Sadly, no. I do have an idea, and it does not
involve elves or unicorns or dragons, but it sort of does involve teleporting.”

“Ok, 
this

I have to hear.” His arms folded across his chest. “What lunatic-”

“Show me a schematic of that factory again, not
just the factory, all the substructures too. No,” I added, “expand it farther.
That’s it,” I jabbed a finger at my laptop display. “That’s what I remember,
there’s a cavern under the factory complex.”

“There are multiple caverns beneath the complex,
some are natural, some were created and some natural caverns were enlarged by
the-”

“Mm hmm, yeah, fascinating history lesson. Listen,
are there any caverns that have access to the factory above? Like, if we got
into that cavern, we could go up a tunnel or something?”

“Um, Joe, you have clearly lost your mind this
time. You agree it is impossible to approach the factory because of the sensor
fields, but you propose to go 
past

the factory to a cavern below it, then come back up? Perhaps you need a
refresher course in-”

“I’ll take a raincheck on the geeky lecture,
Professor Nerdnik. Answer the question, please. Is there even one cavern that
has access to the factory above?”

“Hmm, I am responding only because I am intrigued
to learn what truly whacky idea is in your monkey brain this time. Yes, there
are three caverns that have tunnels or pipes or other access to the factory
area. Is this one of those stupid exercises where you imagine what life would
be like if facts were different? I can assure that in this case, the facts
can’t be changed.”

“If I’m right, the facts are Ok just the way they
are.”

“This is why I truly hate you, Joe. Please, do not
keep me in suspense. I am not mocking you,” he sighed, “because I have learned
that too often, that sack of mush in your skull dreams up a way to accomplish
what seems impossible. What is your idea?”

“Remember on our way back to Earth last time, we
didn’t have much to do, and I asked you to explain how jump wormholes work?”

“I remember that was the 
longest
 four minutes of my miserable life. You wanted me to explain
hyperspatial physics without using any math that would make your tiny brain
explode. That was like trying to announce the play-by-play of a baseball game
without using words.”

“Uh huh, it wasn’t four minutes, it was more like
four freakin’ 
hours
,” I recalled with
a shudder. Even long after I gave up in despair, he would not shut up about it,
continuing to try explaining stuff though my poor brain had shut down.
“Anyways, I did understand part of it, those drawings were very helpful.”

“Cartoons, Joe, they were 
cartoons
. Listen, dumdum, if you want me to explain jump physics to
you again, I am going to need a new box of crayons.”

That made me laugh even though he was insulting
me. “Crayons, that’s a good one.”

“Um, I wasn’t joking.”

“Asshole,” I muttered. “Ok, sit back and prepare
to be dazzled.” So, I told him my idea.

 

 

“Sir?” Simms knocked on the doorframe an hour
later, leaning into my office where I was celebrating with peanut butter and
Fluff on saltine crackers. It was delicious and it also had the bonus of
leaving crumbs all over my office, which annoyed the beer can. “Skippy hinted
to me that you have a plan to get into that pixie factory?”

“Hopefully, yes,” I leaned back in my chair with a
self-satisfied grin.

“It is not really 
Joe’s
 idea,” Skippy sniffed, his avatar glaring at me angrily.

Simms looked at me in surprise. “It’s not?”

“No,” Skippy smirked. “The idea came from a book
he read, called ‘Drag Queen Riders of Porn’.”

“Drag queens?” Simms’s eyebrows shot up before I
could protest.

“It wasn’t actually a book, it was a 
video
,” Skippy winked. “If you know what
I mean.”

Waving my hands frantically, I shouted. “It 
was
 a book, and it was about real
dragons, not porn!”

“Dragons aren’t 
real
, Joe,” Skippy shook his head slowly. “Oh, this is 
so
 sad. Listen, by now, Jennifer knows all
about your weird porn-surfing habits, so-”

“It was 
Pern
,
not porn, Simms,” I insisted.

“Right. I will, uh,” she backed out of the
doorway, her eyes still wide in an accusing look at me. “I can see you are busy,
Sir.” With that, she turned and walked away hurriedly, while I wished there was
a nearby black hole I could throw myself into.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY ONE

 

The pixie factory was on, or actually under, a
planet about the size of Earth except it had only a thin atmosphere. The planet
and the entire star system was heavily monitored and guarded, and the Maxolhx
had a big military base there and facilities to make other important things.
But the entire purpose of the rotten kitties being in that star system was to
manufacture pixies, and anything else there was to support the effort of
making, securing and then transporting pixies. Stealing pixies while they were
in transit from the factory to one of the two vaults was a possibility we
considered and quickly discarded, because the ships transporting pixies were always
escorted by an entire battlegroup designed to protect their precious cargo from
the advanced Rindhalu. No way did our pathetic Frankenstein monster of a space
truck have any chance of surviving an encounter with a Maxolhx battlegroup.

The planet, which we called Detroit because it was
basically there for manufacturing, and because ‘Detroit’ is a better name than
‘Pixieland’, was surrounded by defense satellites and encased in sensor fields.
What gave me hope that we might actually be able to break into the factory was
seeing that the defenses were almost entirely in orbit, and the sensor fields
did not actually extend all the way down to the surface. Skippy explained that
planet had been chosen for its lack of a magnetic field that could affect the
process of making pixies, and that was also why sensor field projectors were
kept far away from the factory complex itself. The Maxolhx were supremely
confident that nothing larger than a pebble could get through their sensor
fields without being detected, and Skippy agreed. So, how was I planning to
break into the factory, if there was no way for us to sneak through the pesky sensor
fields?

It’s simple. I planned to cheat.

 

 

“Ok, the first package is in position,” Skippy
announced in a weary tone. It had taken him three days, nine hours, thirty four
minutes and I’m sure he could report exactly how many microseconds, to get the super-stealthy
package down into the target cavern. The package was a tiny missile he built
just for the mission, designed for the very difficult requirement of
penetrating the sensor network around the planet, to get as close to the
factory as possible. The answer, after a lot of argument from me, was thirty
six kilometers was the closest we could get. My arguing had been because I
assumed Skippy was being his usual pessimistic self of telling me everything
was impossible and it simply couldn’t be done and why couldn’t I understand we
should just give up and it was hopeless and maybe I should just drown myself in
a bottle of tequila? Damn, sometimes he was such a downer that I should have
named him ‘Eeyore’ instead of ‘Skippy’. In this case, after he made a couple of
small tweaks to the plan at my request, I had to agree that even getting the
package within thirty six kilometers of a heavily guarded senior species
factory was pretty much a freakin’ miracle.

The package’s cargo was a heavily-shielded
canister containing one end of a microwormhole. The limited ability Skippy had
to maneuver the missile was the key factor in selecting which cavern to use for
our truly lunatic stunt. The canister with the microwormhole inside it could
not be handled roughly, Skippy could not make the little missile perform sharp turns
or accelerate hard. Those limitations actually did not matter, because abrupt
maneuvers would be like us shining a beacon at the very sophisticated detection
network surrounding the planet. Skippy had to do his old trick of mapping the
sensor fields and anticipating how they would change, then feeding back to the Maxolhx
sensor system what the computer expected to see if space around the planet Detroit
were blank. Back when he had performed a certified Skippy miracle to get our
Falcon dropship through the Bosphuraq sensor fields down to the moonbase, he
had moaned and groaned and gone into full Diva-princess mode about how
difficult that was, and how we monkeys could not begin to appreciate how
incredible that feat of amazingness was, blah blah blah. Now, he admitted that
what he’d done at the moonbase was merely a crude trick, compared to navigating
the wormhole-carrying missile down to the surface of Detroit and threading it
through underground tunnels and caverns. Nine times, the missile had to stop
its flight and bore through solid ground to get to a tunnel. Cutting a route
from one narrow underground passage to another was tricky enough without having
to assure the Maxolhx did not see what the missile was doing. Twice, Skippy let
the missile float along underground streams that flowed in the general
direction of the target cavern. We all knew he was under a tremendous pressure
because for the past two days, Skippy not only had not talked to any of us,
when we tried talking to him, he had given a one-word reply. “Busy,” is all he
said, so we left him alone. Nagatha told me privately that she was concerned
about the little shithead, because he was concentrating so intensely. She had
to run the ship all by herself, with of course very little help from us
monkeys, and although that was good practice for her and our meatsack crew, it
was worrying that if we ran into trouble, Skippy might not be able to help us
unless he abandoned his control over the missile. Releasing the missile would
instantly expose it to the Maxolhx detection system and blow any chance we had to
steal a set of blank pixies.

The first phase of our plan required getting a
microwormhole into a cavern under the factory, as close as possible, and
Skippy’s announcement of success meant we were ready for the next step. I guess
technically the next step was also in process because there were five more
tiny, custom-built missiles carrying microwormholes on their way down to the
same cavern. The second missile was still forty thousand kilometers above the
planet’s surface, with Skippy bringing that follow-on device down using the
experience he gained from guiding the first missile.

It took another nineteen nerve-wracking hours to
get all six missiles, each carrying a microwormhole, down to the cavern, or
near the cavern. Because the event horizons for microwormholes can interfere
with each other if they get too close, only two of the units actually went into
the cavern. The first missile’s nosecone split open, exposing the
microwormhole, which Skippy used to project a stealth field through. At first,
the stealth field was only two meters in diameter, slightly larger than the
entire cavern. When I use the word ‘cavern’, do not think of a giant
underground cave, this place was chosen for its convenient location and not for
its size. A larger underground cavern would likely not have been allowed to
exist anywhere near the pixie factory, so we were lucky to find even a very small
one.

The cavern we found was not large enough for a
human, and we needed it to be much, much larger. So, Skippy carefully pulled
the second missile inside the cavern to the far end, away from the
microwormhole that was projecting the stealth field. That microwormhole was
exposed on the end of a manipulator arm, and Skippy hugely expanded the event
horizon so it was one point two millimeters across, about as big as it could
get without becoming unstable. He used that tear in spacetime to dig out the
compacted soil and rock around the cavern, making it larger and larger each time
the event horizon passed through. What happened to the rocks and soil that went
into the wormhole? Where did it go? It went through the other end of the
microwormhole, which was in an empty cargo bay aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
 far out beyond the edge of the star system. We
could watch that cargo bay through a camera, seeing a tiny but steady trickle
of fine dust falling to create a cone-shaped pile on the floor of the bay. To
our eyes, the trickle of dust came from nowhere, because no human eye could see
the microwormhole. By the time Skippy was done expanding the underground
cavern, the cargo bay was three-quarters full of dust and the microwormhole was
worn out, with Skippy reporting he was having to work hard to keep the event
horizon from collapsing. When the job was done to his satisfaction, he closed
that second microwormhole, and then we had only five more to rely on for the
mission.

The good news is one of those five remaining
microwormholes was a spare that we had brought along in case the excavation
proved too stressful for one magical little spacetime rip. With the cavern dug
out to optimal size using only one unit, we had an extra safety margin in case
something went wrong. 

With the cavern complete and the stealth field
wrapped tightly around it, and the Maxolhx giving no sign they had noticed
unusual activity, we were almost ready for the next phase of the operation- the
most critical, most dangerous phase. Before that, Skippy wanted to send gamma
ray pulses through the third microwormhole, to see if the damping effect of his
modified stealth field was effective in concealing those rays from being
detected by the Maxolhx. He also was waiting to make sure the area around the cavern
was stable, that the hole he had just laboriously dug was not going to fall in
on itself. It bothered me that the little beer can was still not communicating,
and I didn’t want to bother him, so I asked our ship’s AI. “Hey, Nagatha,” I
called her softly, “can you ask Skippy how he-”

“I can speak for myself, Joe,” he cut in. He
sounded 
tired
, not just tired but
worn out. That was of course impossible even if his internal store of metallic
helium-3 was running low, because he drew most of his energy from higher
spacetime or some sciency bullshit like that. For all I knew, he secretly recharged
himself through a USB port when I wasn’t looking.

“Hey, Mister Magnificent, you sound pretty burned
out. Everything Ok with your power supply and all that?”

“My power supply has never been better, Joe. If I
sound worn out that is because I am 
emotionally

drained. You know how absent-minded and ADD I am- I’ll deny the whole thing if
you tell anyone I said that. Over the past more than two days, I have had to
pay close attention and concentrate the whole time, and it 
suuuuucked
. Slipping those little missiles through Maxolhx defenses
was the most difficult thing I have ever done.”

“Come on, Skippy,” I tried to cheer him up. “I saw
you warp a freakin’ star.”

“Technically, I used the star’s magnetic field to
make it warp itself, but that was easy-peasy compared to what I just did. Joe,
um,” he lowered his voice. “Please don’t tell anyone, but a couple minutes
after the first mini-missile entered the sensor grid’s effective detection
range, I realized I had underestimated the capability of the AI that runs their
sensor network. Really, what I underestimated was the Maxolhx’s understanding
of higher-order math and their surprisingly insightful grasp of quantum- 
ugh
, why am I trying to explain this to
you? Bottom line is the Maxolhx are smarter than I thought, they have
discovered some facts about the nature of reality that I do not think even the
Rindhalu understand.”

“Uh huh, yeah,” it all sounded very impressive to
me, “why does that matter?”

“It matters because my ability to predict hidden
patterns in the sensor fields was a lot more limited than I expected. Twice, I
was forced to hold both the lead and follow-on missiles in place, while I
rethought my approach and developed a new branch of mathematics. Joe, several
times I feared that I had been 
outsmarted

for the very first time. Fortunately, the nature of quantum reality is not as
random as the Maxolhx think it is, so in the end I triumphed. My concentration
continued while I guided the other missiles down to the cavern, so I went
silent again shortly after those missiles neared the top of the atmosphere.
What I want to say is after this mission is over, I 
seriously
 need to sit on a couch with a box of Cap’n Crunch and rot
my brain by watching a SpongeBob Squarepants marathon.”

“If you make it a Simpsons marathon, I’ll watch it
with you.”

“Deal. Talk to you later.”

 

‘Later’ meant two hours later. When Skippy
re-emerged from his self-imposed Fortress of Solitude, he announced that all five
remaining microwormholes were in position, fully checked out and ready. “Ok,
we’re ready,” his voice actually trembled a bit, which scared me. Either he was
super tired and making his voice tremble so we would understand the strain he
was under, or he really was losing control. “The stealth field is effectively
absorbing and containing the gamma ray pulses I have been sending into the
cavern. The Maxolhx have not reacted in any way, I am fairly confident our
activity thus far has not been detected. Of course, it helps that their sensor
coverage is poor near the factory complex.”

“Hey, that’s great. You Ok, buddy? Nagatha,” I
added because I worried Skippy wouldn’t tell the truth if he was getting
overwhelmed. “How is Skippy doing?”

“I 
told

you, I can speak for myself, Joe,” the tremble was replaced by a tone of
annoyance, I counted that as an improvement.

“Skippy is fine, Joseph,” Nagatha reported.

“Ah, good.” That made me feel better.

“To be clear,” she made a throat-clearing sound,
“when I said ‘fine’ I meant it in the way you humans say ‘fine’ when you are in
fact 
not
 fine, but you do not wish to
admit it.”

“Hey!” Skippy protested.

“Skippy is significantly fatigued,” Nagatha
ignored the beer can’s attempt to interrupt. “Considering the vital and
extremely delicate nature of the next phase of this operation, I recommend that
Skippy rest. You and your team should rest also, Joseph. The past two days have
been especially hard on you, I have noticed you were not sleeping well.”

“I haven’t been sleeping much, but I also haven’t
been 
doing
 much of anything,” it was
my turn to protest.

“Yes, Dear, you have been doing something that is
very stressful; you have been 
worrying
.
I have observed that worrying drains your energy. If I may, I suggest that
Skippy, and you and the others going on the away mission rest for eight hours
before departure.”

That made me groan inside which I kept to myself,
except I am sure she monitored my vital signs and saw my blood pressure spike
or drop or whatever it does in that situation. “Listen, Nagatha, I appreciate
your concern and that would be a great idea if we had more time-”

“Joseph,” she said gently, “I only mentioned it
because the upcoming operation is of vital importance to the survival of your
entire species, and the operation is extremely delicate which requires Skippy
and the away team to be as sharp as you can be.”

Crap, she was right. She was absolutely, one
hundred percent right. To my surprise, Skippy agreed. “Joe,” he sighed, “though
I am reluctant to say this, Nagatha is correct. You meatsacks should rest
before going into action. I also, and this is not easy to say, could use some
downtime. My processors do not require sleep, however the recent continuous
strain on my matrix has made me realize there are adjustments needed to the
redesign I implemented after I rebooted myself. Yes, I am the new, improved
even-more-awesome Skippy, however even I can benefit from minor tweaks to my
internal structure. While I was concentrating extremely hard to get the six packages
down into to that cavern, I was not able to perform running maintenance on my internal
indexing and- Doing what you think of as rearranging my sock drawers.”

“Ah, I got it. Your matrix is not all neat and
tidy the way you like it.”

“Whether I like it does not matter, Joe. What does
matter is that my processing speed and flexibility is decreased by the degraded
condition of my matrix. Bottom line is, I should take myself partially offline
for a while, to be safe. On the moonbase mission, almost everything that could
have gone wrong did go wrong, and still we were successful. The mission to
acquire pixies is an order of magnitude more difficult and delicate. In this
mission, absolutely every part of the plan could go exactly 
right 
and we could still fail, because
there are too many unknowns. There is zero margin for error on this one, Joe.”

“Uh huh.” I stifled a yawn, “got it. Ok, I do not
like another delay, time is running out for us to learn where those ships are
going, they might already be on their way to Earth. To give us the best chance
for success, we will stand down for,” I thought about what to say. The small
away team was tired and we could use a solid eight hours of sleep. Add time
before and after. “Fourteen hours, is that good?”

“That is good, Joe,” Skippy’s own voice contained
a hint of a yawn, he was doing that for my benefit.

Smythe, Grudzien and Reed did not like hearing
about the delay, they all wanted to 
go

and get it over with and they were all keyed up to launch their phase of the
mission on schedule. They also understood when I explained the reasons, and
Smythe set an example by going straight to his cabin to maximize sleep time. We
planned to meet at the dropship in twelve hours, giving us two hours to
preflight the bird and triple-check everything before launching our ultra-risky
mission.

 

 

“This is crazy this is crazy this is 
crazy
,” Skippy’s avatar muttered to
himself while helpfully standing atop the console between pilot seats, swinging
his arms in front of him and bending his legs, like he was working up the nerve
to jump into a swimming pool.

“You are not boosting our confidence here,
Skippy,” I shot him a worried look. “Is this going to work or not?”

“The 
theory

is sound,” he was instantly defensive.

“That’s not what you said when I explained what I
wanted to do.”

“That is because you had no idea what you were
asking. Only my incredible magnificence makes your lunatic scheme possible. 
If
 it is possible. I would feel a lot
better if we had been able to fully test this scheme.”

“You told me we don’t have enough equipment for a
full test.”

“Well, we don’t. If we strip any more parts off
the 
Dutchman
, we might as well park
it, because it won’t be going anywhere.” His avatar turned to look at the
cockpit displays. “It sure is dark out there. This is creepy.”

Our very-much-modified Dragon dropship was
hovering in a chamber we had carved and melted under the surface of a nameless small
comet, way out in the Oort cloud of the star system where the pixie factory was
located. Just getting the Dragon down into the chamber had been a major
project. All the extra gear attached made it too big to comfortably fit through
the docking bay door, and we couldn’t afford to risk damaging the gear that
could not be replaced, so we had flown the Dragon out the door, where a crew
bolted on all the extra gear. Then we left our stealthed starship behind, to engage
the Dragon’s own enhanced stealth field and fly down into a narrow tunnel that
led to the chamber. The comet rotated very slowly, so the tunnel entrance would
be facing away from the inner star system for another eighty seven days. That
tunnel had so many twists and turns that even if the entrance had been directly
facing the distant star, no light would have been detected in the cavern where
the Dragon was hiding.

The tricky part of using a comet to conceal our
highly-modified dropship was that the 
Dutchman

first had to take nearly a week to slowly and steadily nudge the comet until it
was traveling in the exact direction we needed and at the exact speed. The
comet was now moving on a vector very different from most other objects in the
local Oort Cloud and the Maxolhx would eventually notice that, but because the
comet was a small, dirty chunk of ice, no one was paying close attention to it.

“Sir,” Reed got my attention from the pilot seat.
Even in the low gravity of the comet, our little Dragon, burdened by all the
heavy equipment bolted onto it, could not hover forever without running the
fuel supply dangerously low.

“Uh, yeah, thank you,” I acknowledged her concern.
“Skippy, is there any reason we can’t go on schedule?”

“Oh, so, so many reasons, Joe,” the avatar shook
its head slowly. “Sanity, for one. Then there is-”

“Yeah, blah blah blah,” I waved a hand, irritated
at him. “We 
are
 doing this. Will
waiting increase our chance of success?”

“Nothing could 
increase

your chance of success,” he sniffed, and I noticed he said ‘your’ instead of
‘our’. The traitorous little shithead was already emotionally distancing
himself from us, partly so he wouldn’t share any of the blame if the mission
went sideways.

“Fine, then. Everything is programmed into the autopilot?”
Rather than pointing to the walnut-sized navigation computer built into the
flight console between the pilot seats, I jerked a thumb backwards to the pile
of hardware jammed into the cabin, forcing Smythe and Grudzien to occupy jump
seats attached to the rear of the cockpit bulkhead. Through yet another
microwormhole, this one’s near end was in a canister strapped to the back of my
seat, Skippy had instantaneous communications between our Dragon and the 
Dutchman
 that was parked only fifty
thousand kilometers away, for safety in case the experiment failed and the
resulting explosion cracked the little comet. The speed-of-light time lag
across even a mere fifty thousand klicks was too much for Skippy to control the
experiment, so he grudgingly consented to create yet another tiny wormhole for
us.

“Everything is programmed that can be programmed
ahead of time, I told you that. You really want to do this?”

I looked at the sour expression on Reed’s face,
then back to Smythe and Grudzien. None of us were enthusiastic about trying our
latest whacky stunt. “I really do 
not
,
Skippy,” I met Reed’s eyeroll with a shrug. “None of us 
want
 to be here. We’re doing it anyway. Initiate on schedule,
please.”

“Okey-dokey, it’s your funeral,” he grumbled.
“This is all going to happen faster than monkeys can think, so shut up and let
me work.”

 

The first thing that happened, which I only know
about from sensor data afterward, was a jumble of jump drive coils and
capacitors attached to the outside of our Dragon created a jump wormhole,
projecting the far end across the star system and into the cavern Skippy had
dug out under the pixie factory on the planet Detroit. That jump wormhole
survived only a quarter of a second, and was not more than half a millimeter in
diameter at the event horizon. As Skippy said, things happened fast, so a
quarter-second was plenty of time to either get the job done or create a
disaster that could blow away the comet and force the 
Dutchman
 to perform an emergency jump away.

With the jump wormhole open and verified as momentarily
stable, Skippy analyzed sensor data and sent updated instructions to the
autopilot that was really a jump computer. Even with Skippy’s instantaneous
communication through the magic of microwormholes, he could not control our
jump, and once the Dragon began to be pulled into the 
second
 jump wormhole, his connection to us would be cut off. We
needed the crude assembly of mismatched alien circuits stolen from the Roach
Motel’s junkyard to control the jump for us, and I am sure the thing was
talking to itself something like ‘What the F- you have 
GOT
 to be kidding me!’ when it realized it was supposed to guide us
to jump 
through
 another wormhole.

 

My genius idea, which started as more of a
concept, Ok, more of a daydream than an actual idea, was for us to gain access
to the pixie factory by 
jumping
 a
dropship close enough that we could walk to the factory complex. I had been
inspired by that book about teleporting dragons, because we would basically be
teleporting a dropship. Skippy had convinced me, after endless and futile
argument, that there was absolutely no way something the size of a dropship,
not even something the size of a human encased in a spacesuit and stealth field,
could approach the planet without being detected. The Maxolhx sensor grids
around the moon were much too sophisticated, not even Skippy could manipulate
them enough to slip us through.

I got the idea by thinking about how, shortly
after we capture the 
Flying Dutchman
,
we got rid of more than a dozen unwanted Kristang starships, by having Skippy
take control and jump them into a gas giant planet. Yes, sure, those ships had
been destroyed from emerging deep down in the gravity well, inside a thick
atmosphere, and from their jump wormholes being close enough to overlap and
destabilize. What I had proposed to Skippy was that somehow, his incredible
magnificence could control a jump so a small dropship could survive the
journey.

Unfortunately, my understanding of jump physics
had been woefully, hilariously wrong. Or, the cartoons Skippy used to explain
jump physics to me had been wrong. Whatever. Although ships going through jump
wormholes go from one location in spacetime to another location without
traveling all the space in between, the two ends of a jump wormhole itself 
do
 have a tenuous connection through the
space between them. Technically, that is not true, but when one end of a
wormhole is inside a planet, the mass of the planet between it and the other
end does warp and distort and try to tear apart the wormhole. Skippy’s
boundless magnificence could keep such a wormhole from collapsing long enough
for something to travel through, but whatever made the transition would itself
be crushed and torn apart by the severe distortion. So, the gleeful answer from
the beer can was that 
this
 time, an
idea I proposed would not work, and he could look forward to endlessly mocking
me. Except, of course, that failing to get a batch of pixies would soon lead to
the demise of me and all other humans, which threw Skippy into a deep
depression. Not because my species would become extinct, but because he would
not have a species as dumb as humans to screw with.

You might think his lack of concern for humanity’s
survival prospects was a bad thing, but his selfish desire to continue screwing
with us hairless apes was a great motivator, so I didn’t waste time yelling at
him for being an inconsiderate asshole. On his own, Skippy realized there 
was
 a way to make my crazy idea work,
and that the problem with my idea was that it simply was not crazy enough.

A jump wormhole emerging in the gravity well of a
planet would be so severely distorted that nothing physical could survive
passing through it, but that was not an obstacle to Skippy-The-Even-More-Magnificent-Than-He-Imagined.
He was inspired by our jumping through an Elder wormhole during the Zero Hour
mission. Sure, that stunt had broken an ancient wormhole, nearly destroyed the
ship and thrown us into the future, but that experience yielded two benefits.
First, Skippy had created a new branch of mulitudinous- No, that’s not it.
Multi-dimensional trans- Nope, I still got it wrong. Anyway, it was some
super-duper fancy type of math that nearly made even his ginormous brain
explode when he ran the calculations. After that fateful jump, he had been able
to refine his math and simplify it so even a comparatively stupid jump drive
navigation AI could run the calculations, even though the poor device had no
prayer of understanding what it was doing.

The second benefit of us using an Elder wormhole
for an experiment was he had discovered something his math had hinted at, but
he hadn’t been able to confirm until we actually did it. When one wormhole goes
through another wormhole, that inner wormhole can be extremely skinny, like
barely eight angstroms in width. An angstrom is a very small thing, I had to
look it up and I still don’t understand it, but take my word that it is
super-duper small. Think about this; two hydrogen atoms will fit inside an
angstrom.

Why did we care about this newly-discovered fact?
Because it meant our inner jump wormhole could be compressed to fit through
stable pathways inside the first wormhole, the one that was distorted by
passing through the mass of the planet. Or, that is what Skippy thought could
happen, except he wasn’t a hundred percent sure because it had never been done
before. We would have liked to try it in another solar system far from anyone’s
notice, but we did not have any jump drive coils or capacitors to spare, and
Skippy estimated the jump navigation computer he slapped together with duct
tape and a prayer would not be good for more than two jump attempts before it
burned out.

Also, the timing was very tricky, because the
cavern under the factory was moving as the planet moved around the star and
rotated around its access. We had to jump at the exact moment when our Dragon
was motionless compared to the cavern, or we would emerge from the jump
wormhole’s event horizon to smack hard into the cavern walls.

So, once again we had to grit our teeth and trust
the awesomeness.

 

The second wormhole pulled us through the first
one, with the Dragon emerging inside the cavern Skippy created. Both wormholes
collapsed immediately and the stealth field dampening effect barely contained
the gamma radiation. “Whew, that was 
close
,”
Skippy gasped a moment later, speaking to us through one of the microwormholes
that were parked just outside the cavern. “Wait a minute, don’t do 
anything
,” he implored. “Ok, Ok, wormhole
One was overstressed by the stealth field containing that much radiation, I had
to bring backup wormhole Four online to take over the stealth projection, and I
shut down One.”

“But everything is fine, Skippy?” I asked with my
heart in my throat while I gestured for Reed to set the Dragon down very gently
and kill the engines.

“Um, yeah, heh heh,” he laughed nervously. “Why
would anything be wrong?” His voice ended in a squeak.

I braced myself for the fatally bad news. “What
happened?”

“You are alive, aren’t you? Be grateful, Joe,” he
sniffed.

“We were alive 
before

we trusted ourselves to your idiotic math. If all we wanted was to be alive, we
wouldn’t have done this. Did it work? Do the Maxolhx know we are here?”

“The good news is those rotten kitties, and their
sensor network, have no idea you just snuck in through the back door. I guess
there is more good news; I now have enough data to refine my calculations, so
your outbound jump should not be as risky. If, you know, there is an outbound
jump, heh heh.”

“
If
? Crap.
What went wrong?”

“Um, that pile of junk I threw together to control
jump navigation kind of blew a fuse. Luckily, I contacted it through this end
and fed it updated settings, which I could do because the other end was further
back in time. It’s complicated, Joe, nothing to worry your fuzzy little monkey
head about. The good news is I might, 
might
,
not making any promises here, be able to fix the computer and revise the
programming before you have to jump out. Otherwise, you are not jumping anywhere.”

Shit. Turning in my seat, I saw a thin, orange
tendril of smoke drift upward from the makeshift jump computer. “Skippy, that
thing is on 
fire
!”

“Not anymore, heh heh, I cut the power and
activated the fire suppression gear. Um, you shouldn’t breathe that smoke, it
is toxic. I wouldn’t worry too much about it, Joe.”

“
You

have nothing to worry about!”

“Oh, I wasn’t talking about myself. See? This is
me demonstrating my mastery of empathy. I meant, 
you
 should not worry about it.”

“Oh,” the relief was so abrupt it made me shiver.
“Cool. Because you can easily fix it?”

“Ha! As if! Dude, right now I have no freakin’
clue if I can fix it. You should not worry because there is nothing you can do
about it. What you 
should 
worry about
is the next step of the mission.”

My reply was cut off by Smythe. “He is correct,
Sir. We have a job to do.”

“Skippy, if we ever try this trick again, we will
first test it by jumping you into a star.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY TWO

 

Have you ever seen ‘The Grinch’? Stupid question,
of course you have. Do you remember the scene where the Grinch has stolen the
last present, and is sneaking away from Whoville?

That’s how Smythe and I felt, carrying sacks of
pixies out of the factory. Our mission there had been outstandingly successful,
better than we hoped, even though there had been a few problems along the way.

First, our way into the factory was through what
Skippy had described as a ‘small thermal exhaust port’. He was not wrong about
the thing being small, it was barely a meter and a half wide. The size was not
the problem, even in mech suits we were able to fit inside the thing without
difficulty although we had to go one at a time. Since the team going into the
factory was only me and Smythe, having to go one at a time was not a major
problem.

The major problem was the ‘thermal exhaust’ part.
The factory was powered partly by a geothermal source buried deep below the
surface, it used hot magma for energy, and pumped down a cold slurry of liquid
sodium or something like that, I hadn’t been paying attention when Skippy
explained the nerdy details. Anyway, most of the time there was no need for
exhausting any heat, the cold liquid went down a pipe, got heated by the magma
and rushed up to the generator. Heat was carried by the liquid, with no need to
waste energy by venting it.

Except that magma had currents like any liquid,
even though it was liquid rock. Sometimes heat built up in the magma chamber in
excess of what was needed by the factory’s needs, and to relieve pressure, thermal
energy was vented to the surface to keep the foundation of the factory stable. It
didn’t happen often or even regularly but if it happened while Smythe or I were
in the exhaust shaft, we would get cooked even inside our suits. So, the first
thing we had to do was cut into the shaft- No, wait. The 
first
 thing we did was make sure the exhaust shaft was not already
in use and super hot. It was not, so we cut a hole in the side and dropped a
stealthy probe down on a long, ultrathin wire. Fortunately, the only sensors in
the shaft were for temperature and pressure, so Skippy was able to take control
and bypass those sensors easily as the probe dropped. At the bottom, the probe
needed to crawl around on its creepy centipede legs until it found the mechanism
for the vent controller. Once Skippy had hacked into the controller, the
exhaust port on the bottom would not open while we were in the shaft. Great,
right? Except it was a long climb up to the factory and if there was a big
thermal flare below us, the factory AI would wonder why the eventual exhaust
was so unusually hot, and then wonder why the port had not opened when it was
supposed to.

That is why Smythe and I, with me going first,
climbed as quickly as we could. Technically, we both surrendered control of the
climb to our suit computers, which could activate and release the gecko-grip
mechanism and move the powered arms and legs much faster than either of us
could. After we were both in the shaft, with Smythe climbing thirty meters
below me, Reed and Grudzien sealed the hole we had cut, so they wouldn’t get
killed when the exhaust was venting. Also so the factory AI would not notice a
portion of the thermal energy was flowing in the wrong direction.

Anyway, we got into the factory, and Skippy took
control of the factory AI more easily than he expected, although he made an
extra effort to explain how incredibly difficult that task was, and how his
awesomeness had never been demonstrated more awesomely than right then.

After that, Smythe and I had the nerve-wracking
task of doing 
absolutely nothing
 for
twenty two hours, while the factory churned out pixies and Skippy altered
production records to make it look like perfectly good pixies had flaws and
were discarded. The long delay, while the factory worked to make pixies we
could steal, was the reason we had to conceal our outbound jump inside a comet.
Someone in the star system would certainly have noticed the unknown gamma ray
burst and probably increased security at the factory. On the way out, we could
let the far end of our jump wormhole be exposed in space, as we didn’t plan to
hang around long after our escape from the factory. I sat with Smythe, the two
of us trying to rest and not talking much, while the factory churned away
around us in the darkness. Technically, we were never in the factory complex
itself, only in a sort of bunker that had nothing except for a port where
Skippy could begin hacking into the Maxolhx AI. The beer can assured us there
was no reason we could not talk normally, as he had complete control of the
factory complex and sensors, but neither Smythe nor I felt like talking much
and we were both too tense to relax and make conversation. We both slept in
shifts, or I slept when it was my turn and I assume Smythe got rest while I was
on watch.

Sorry there isn’t more to report, we sat and
waited while Skippy had the factory churn out pixies for us, and then a bot
carried the batch of ten pixies to us before turning around and silently
walking away. I put five of the paired devices in my pack and Smythe took the
other five, and we started back to the exhaust shaft.

Everything was going great, until it wasn’t.

 

“Joe, I have good news and bad news,” Skippy
announced with way more cheeriness than was appropriate for telling someone
about bad news, especially in our tense situation.

“Oh, crap. Bad news first, please.”

“Um, well, heh heh, it appears that I might have
screwed up 
big time
, and now it looks
like you and the team are stuck in there and I don’t see any way out of it.”

“What the hell happened?”

“Well, um, heh heh, my ego 
might
 have gotten the better of me. When I took over that AI, I was
so offended by the amateurish way it managed pixie production, that, um, I kind
of tweaked the process to make it more efficient. Just a tiny bit, like a seven
percent improvement in yield. It wasn’t entirely about my ego,” he added
quickly. “Part of tweaking the process was to make sure we could get a batch of
good pixies quickly. The problem is, um, I sort of forgot to conceal the
process improvements from the Maxolhx in charge of the facility, and they
instantly got curious about why the production yield suddenly became
significantly more efficient. The bottom line is a group of Maxolhx officials
are on their way to inspect the production facility right now. You will not
have time to get away before they arrive.”

“What the 
f
-
Holy shit, what is the 
good
 news?”

“The good news is that I feel just 
terrible
 about it, Joe. See? I’ve been
working on that empathy thing, at which I am now 
awe-some
,” he sang in a falsetto voice. “Really, screwing up like
that put me in a deep funk for days. Days of my time, it was only a couple
nanoseconds in your time. I feel 
much

better now. Hey, this guilt-trip thing sucks, 
total
 waste of time, I don’t know why you monkeys bother with it. I
mean, there’s nothing I can do to fix the problem, it’s not like I can change
the past, you know? Anywho, you do not need to worry that your impending and
inevitable deaths will be a burden to me, I’m over it.” He paused. “Uh, Joe, are
you listening?” There were muffled booming sounds like someone tapping a
microphone. “Is this thing on? Crap, have I been talking to myself the whole
time? Damn it! If I wasted that whole stupid speech moaning about how sorry I
am, I am going to be 
pissed
.”

“I. Was. Listening. 
YOU SHITHEAD
!”

“You were listening? 
Ugh
, then why did you make me think I had just poured my heart out
for nothing? That was totally inconsiderate, you big jerk.”

“
I’m
 a
jerk? 
Your
 screw-up is going to get
us killed!”

“Oh, sure, it’s 
all
 about you, Joe. What about me? I will have to go on without
you, do you know how difficult that will be? Well, it would be difficult,
except that I will just press the Easy Button and archive all my memories of
you so they don’t bother me. But, think how hard it will be for me to train a
new monkey? Where am I going to find- Ooh! Ooh! I have a 
great
 idea! How about when the ship gets back to Earth, I start a
new reality show in which contestants compete to be my new pet monkey? I could
call it something like ‘Who wants to be’-”

“That is a terrible idea, and you are not sorry at
all.”

“I am too. Nagatha! Tell him.”

“It is true, dear,” Nagatha acknowledged, “that
Skippy was beating himself up about his mistake, he was quite inconsolable for
several nanoseconds. In true Skippy fashion, he indulged himself by writing an
epic poem about his sorrow, then turned it into a song. Thank God he has gotten
over his guilt and grief, I was growing so tired of hearing that song.”

“Hey!” Skippy protested. “That is a great song,”
and of course he broke into singing. “
You’re
here in my heart, and my heart will go on and on
-”

“What the- You 
ASS
!”
I exploded. “You didn’t write that song, that is the theme from the movie ‘Titanic’!”

“Um, I didn’t steal that song, I was, um, uh, 
inspired
 by it. Yeah, that’s it.
Besides, that Rose chick was only sad about losing some boytoy she bonked for,
like, three freakin’ minutes. Oh, boo hoo, she was in 
looove
. Yuck, gag me,” he spat in disgust. “
I
 was wracked with grief because I’m going to lose a whole barrel
of monkeys I have known for years. So, tell me, who deserves to own that song,
me or some fictional girl in a movie? Joe? Are you there?”

I had no words.

“You can’t even console me about my ever-lasting
sorrow?” Skippy whined. “Jeez, who needs empathy lessons now? Selfish little
Joey Bishop, that’s who. Big jerk.”

“Sir?” Colonel Smythe interrupted my pleasant
fantasy of watching Skippy helplessly spiral down into the crushing gravity
well of a black hole. “Perhaps instead of arguing about whether the beer can is
sorrowful about his mistake, you concentrate on fixing the problem.”

“Uh, yeah,” I agreed. While Skippy had been being
extra asshole-ish, I had been thinking about how to get us out of the latest
mess he got us into. “Skippy, where are those Maxolhx officials now? Right
now?”

“They are boarding a ship that is at a space
station in high orbit. Once pre-flight checks are complete, I expect the ship
to depart in twelve minutes. That particular ship is not a threat, it is merely
a lightly-armed transport, but once the officials arrive, they will inevitably
detect your presence and alert several warships that are parked nearby. There
is not enough time for you to get all the way out of the production factory and
fly away in the dropship before the officials arrive.”

Smythe spoke before I could. “It is possible for
you to intercept communications between those officials and the warships?
Prevent them from sending an alert?”

“Unfortunately, no,” the chastened beer can
replied. “Their ship has an independent comm system based on pixies. If I
attempt to interrupt their signals, that will set off an alarm. This is why I
said I am sorry, I do not see any way for you to escape from there.”

“Uh huh, yeah,” I was only half-listening to him.
“I don’t suppose you can screw with their transport ship, so it can’t fly
here?”

“No, dumdum, I’m not there, 
duh
. Besides, they would just switch to another transport. You are
well and truly screwed this time, I am sorry. Jeez, I am sick of saying that
word. I’m 
sorry
, Ok? That’s the last
time I’m saying that.”

“He might be right about our dilemma this time,
Sir,” Smythe had a completely stiff upper lip about the situation. “If we can’t
escape, what are your orders?”

“I’m not giving up yet, Smythe. We may yet have a
card to play,” I assured him, although right then, shit, I had no idea what we
could do. If those Maxolhx officials were responsible for the production
facility, they for damned sure would want to investigate any anomaly in its
processes. Even if Skippy now had the AI tell the officials that the initial
report of a suddenly-improved process was a mistake, that would be alarming
enough to need investigation.

Hell, if I were in charge of a major, very
important and expensive facility and something changed unexpectedly, I would
want to know what was going on before my boss asked me about-

Holy shit.

“Skippy, these officials coming here, are they,
like, in charge of this place? Are they the highest-ranking officials in this
star system?”

“No, why? The Maxolhx headed toward you are the line
production managers; they report to a sort of Grand Poobah who is responsible
for the entire effort. The people coming toward you want to know what the hell
is going on, before the Grand Poobah’s office finds out there was an anomaly
and asks them about it.”

That made me smile. “Hmm, so this Grand Poobah
guy-”

“She’s a female, Joe,” Skippy chided me.

“Whatever. She doesn’t know about the anomaly yet?
Tell her, Skippy. Have the factory AI tell her 
right now
.”

“Um, Ok, doing it now. I don’t understand why that
would matter.”

“That’s because you don’t understand the
bureaucratic mindset, Skippy. Everybody wants to cover their asses. This Grand
Poobah woman, she also has a boss somewhere, and if there is a problem with the
big project she is responsible for, she will want to see the problem herself,
not get a secondhand report from her flunkies.”

“Those officials are highly-skilled scientists,
Joe, I would not describe them as ‘flunkies’.”

“You don’t have to. I can guarantee you that 
she
 thinks of them that way. Go do a
crossword puzzle or something, give it a minute.”

It took four minutes, during that time I was
sweating in my suit and my hands were shaking even more than they had been
since we left the 
Flying Dutchman
. If
my ploy didn’t work, I was totally out of ideas and we were totally out of
options. So was humanity. Crap, there was no pressure on me, right?

“Huh,” Skippy was puzzled. “Maybe I 
do
 need to study how the mind of a
bureaucrat works. Incredible though it may seem, you were right, Joe. That
woman I described as the Grand Poobah just called her flunkies and told them
not to approach the production facility, until she and her staff have time to
assess the situation and then join them. That is expected to take well over
three hours. She sounded more than a bit upset that the local officials
intended to investigate the anomaly without informing her about it. Apparently,
this is not the first time she has been kept in the dark about a potential
issue with the factory. Joe, you may just have gotten some hapless production
managers fired. I hope you are happy, you heartless jerk. Some poor Maxolhx
family may starve because of you, Joe.”

“Yeah, my heart bleeds for them, Skippy. Tell you
what; I’ll send a CARE package of Fluff and, um, the Maxolhx are sort of cats
so I’ll send them a tin of sardines or something.”

“That would be a heart-warming gesture if you
actually cared, Joe.”

“They can leave a scathing review about me on
Yelp, Skippy. Are we good, now? We should be well away from here in an hour,
right?”

“Um, yes. Assuming nothing else major goes wrong,
of course.”

“Of course.”

“Goodie. Heh heh, well, I am sure we can all put
this unfortunate incident behind us and forget all about it, huh? I guess we
all, heh heh, worried for nothing.”

Smythe came my defense. “It would not have been
‘nothing’ if Colonel Bishop could not think of a way out of a mess 
you
 created.”

“It’s not fair you all ganging up on me,” the beer
can grumbled. “Yes, I made a mistake, Ok? Every mistake is a learning
experience, and I learned a lot from this unfortunate incident.”

“Like, you learned not to let your massive ego get
us into trouble?” I asked hopefully.

“Um, uh, yeah, that too, I’ll make a note of it.
What I meant is that I learned guilt is 
way

overrated, and that next time, I will wait for your corpse to get cold before I
waste time moping around just because you are dead.”

Smythe and I looked at each other. “Sir, if you
could do a favor for me?” He asked. “Think of a way to download the useful
parts of Skippy into the ship’s computer, so we can drop the beer can into a
particularly nasty star?”

 

“Skippy, please tell me you have fixed the jump
navigation computer,” I whispered as my boots clomped into the Dragon’s
airlock. To avoid annoying and distracting him, I had not asked about his
progress with the sophisticated yet crude pile of circuits that, when I had
last seen it, was on fire and issuing toxic orange smoke.

“Um, define ‘fixed’, Joe,” his voice had that
nervous flutter of an unspoken ‘heh heh’ that chilled my blood.

“Crap. Does the damned thing work or not? ‘Work’
is defined as jumping us out of here. Wait! Jumping us out of here alive, and
without the Maxolhx detecting the jump. Or detecting any sign that we were ever
here. Wait!” I slapped a palm on my helmet faceplate. “The ‘alive’ part is, uh,
optional if it 
absolutely
 has to be.
We need to get the pixies to the 
Dutchman
.”
The plan was to use the last two sets of precious jump drive coils to bring the
Falcon back to emerge behind an icy planetoid near the
 Dutchman
, so the mass of that little planetoid would keep the
gamma radiation of the inbound jump from being detected. What would keep the
outbound jump from being detected was two things. The energy-absorbing stealth
field Skippy projected through one of the microwormholes in the cavern he had
created, and a stealth netting grid that Reed and Rowe had installed around the
cavern while Smythe and I were stealing pixies. In addition to the grid, there
was a very fine wire that had sunk itself down deep through the bottom of the
cavern, so it could tap geothermal energy to power the stealth netting. The
instant the 
Flying Dutchman
 jumped
away with Skippy, the microwormholes in the cavern would collapse, taking the
stealth field with them. We had to be sure the Maxolhx would never, or at least
not for a very long time, learn about an artificial cavern under their critical
pixie-production facility. Skippy estimated the stealth netting would conceal
the cavern for thousands of years, long enough for natural forces to slowly
fill it in.

“Ok, um, the answer is yes. Or no. It depends. The
thing is busted real good, Joe, and it can only be partially fixed, even with
the spare parts you brought along.”

Clustered around the jump computer was a pile of
burned-out parts that had been discarded by the bots, and three bins of
assorted spares we had brought with us. The bins were still mostly full, that
told me whatever the problem was, the computer could not be fixed with the components
available. “In what way is the answer ‘yes’?”

“First let’s start with the bad news. The jump
computer can target a distant jump point and project the far-end event horizon
near the 
Flying Dutchman
. That is
fairly simple math, any unmodified jump navigation system can do that as a
basic requirement. The task is made easier because this computer is only being
asked to create a very narrow wormhole, that decreases the effect of gravitational
distortion on the initial wormhole. Unfortunately, in its current degraded
state, the computer is not capable of crunching numbers in the advanced math I
created for a secondary jump wormhole to pull you through the initial wormhole.
A second wormhole could be created, but without very delicate control of its
internal field, the far-end event horizon would be pulled back toward the near
end to collapse both wormholes, with extremely violent results. The good news
if that happens is the Maxolhx would never know what the hell happened, because
the entire factory and a big chunk of the planet would be converted to
subatomic particles.”

Everything we had done up to that point was for
nothing, and as the commander, it was all my fault. “That is not actually 
good
 news, Skippy.”

“Oh, that wasn’t 
the
 good news, Joe. I mentioned that only as sort of a silver
lining if your sudden deaths become inevitable. No, the good news is there is a
possibility- Kind of a slim possibility, I will admit. But it is possible,
theoretically, that I can act as the jump navigation computer to control the
second wormhole.”

I reached up to scratch my head, forgetting my
helmet was still on. “How can you do that? The jump needs to be initiated from here,
and you’re aboard the 
Dutchman
.”

“That is why I said it is theoretical, Joe,” he
sighed. “You left the microwormhole in the factory-”

Seeing Smythe’s look of consternation, I objected.
“Yeah, because 
you
 told us to do
that.”

“It is necessary, for me to continue monitoring
that factory AI until we can be certain the operation was successful, and I can
withdraw my presence and erase evidence we were there. And it is not a problem,
because there are other microwormholes in or near the cavern. You can go
outside and bring one into the Dragon.”

“Ok, yeah,” I still didn’t know where he was going
with his idea. “What good will that do?”

“Having a microwormhole in the Dragon will allow
me to act as the jump controller for the second, inner wormhole.”

“Uh, are you sure about that? As we go through the
wormhole, the microwormhole connection will be severed and you will lose
contact.”

“True, and you saying that encourages me that you
are not as dumb as you look,” he smacked me with the back-handed compliment. “I
will position one end of 
another

microwormhole here, near where you should emerge. As I lose connection from
your end, my hope is that I can reconnect quickly from this end, and keep the
inner wormhole from collapsing.”

“You can do that?”

“Um, I truly do not know. There are a lot of variables
involved, it kind of depends on luck, the way you monkeys think of ‘luck’. That
is why I said this is all theoretical, Joe.”

“Can you give us a solid shmaybe about this
working?”

“Truthfully, I have 
no
 idea if this can actually work. There is no way to test it,
because any test would need to replicate the exact conditions on both ends at
the exact time you jump, right down to the quantum foam level. I do not have
all the data needed to lock down the variables.”

“I am not bursting with confidence, Skippy.”

“Realistically, you should be trembling with fear.”

“Crap. Ok, um, the problem is the second, inner
wormhole, right? The initial wormhole will be stable?”

“For a very short time, yes, but long enough.”

“Good. Is there any way to adjust that initial
wormhole so a pair of pixies can go through?”

“What good would that do, Joe?” He was puzzled.
“Pixies will not allow me to control the second wormhole to pull the Dragon
through.”

“No, but having pixies will allow Simms to have a
chance to complete the mission.” There was a sharp intake of breath behind me,
as someone realized I was considering us getting permanently stranded in a
cavern under the surface of Detroit. “This isn’t a game, Skippy. Without those
pixies, we are all dead anyway.”

“Um, while I find your notion of self-sacrifice
noble, if misguided, the answer is no. Any pixies you attempt to send by
themselves through the initial wormhole would be disassociated by distortion
effects and rendered useless. Sorry. The only way for you to complete the
mission is for the Dragon to come through the jump, carrying the pixies.”

“Crap. How much time to we have?”

“The ship transporting the Grand Poobah is approaching
the planet, it will land in approximately two hours. You are running out of
time as well as options, Joe. While the factory complex is blind due to my
control of sensors there, the approaching ships might be able to detect your
outbound jump. The stealth field around the cavern is not perfect, and the
effects of the jump-within-a-jump create gamma radiation that is difficult to
mask. Your inbound jump damaged the stealth field more than I anticipated, I do
apologize for that.”

“It’s not your fault, Skippy,” for some reason I
felt a need to comfort 
him
, though he
was safe aboard the 
Flying Dutchman

many lighthours away. “We ask you to do the impossible, stuff that has never
been done before. Ok,” I took a deep breath, squared my shoulders and turned to
face my three companions.

“If you are asking for a vote,” Smythe told me
with a warning look in his eyes, “you won’t get one, Sir. You are the
commander.”

Shaking my head, I looked at the deck. The problem
with the Merry Band of Pirates was we were always reacting to a crisis at the
last minute, and that was my fault. “No, Smythe. No vote. Several times, I told
Chotek that some chance is better than none. Now it’s my turn to sell that same
line of bullshit to myself, and it’s not easy. All right, Skippy, this is your
big chance to demonstrate, once and for all, that you are the undisputed King
of Awesomeness. Do your thing, whenever you’re ready. All we ask is you give it
your best shot. I know you’re not happy this might kill us.”

“Oh. Yeah, that too. What I meant was I am not
eager to try something that could end in a very rare failure for me. I kind of
have a reputation to maintain, you know.”

“My heart bleeds for you, beer can. Do it.”

“Ok. Um, the calculations will take me a couple
minutes to prepare. While you are waiting, you should double-check that all the
junk in the cabin is secure, and then strap in real tight. This could get a bit
rough. Joe,” there was a catch in his voice. “I am serious, this maneuver is
extremely risky. I cannot even give myself a shmaybe about this one. If,” he
choked up, “if this is the last time we speak, then, well, basically I will be 
very
 disappointed that you did not die
in a more dramatic fashion.”

“Thank you 
so

much, Skippy,” I rolled my eyes.

“Hey, I’m just sayin’, you know?

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY THREE

 

For a moment, Jennifer Simms was tempted to give
Porter the command chair, and go into Bishop’s office to speak privately with
the beer can. Her legs tensed to push herself out of the command chair, but
then she relaxed as she decided against leaving the bridge during such a
critical situation. The 
Flying Dutchman

had only two experienced pilots, and only Porter was fully qualified to fly the
starship. Reed, although an excellent pilot, had not completed her starship
pilot qualification before the ship returned to Earth, mostly because she had
concentrated on flying dropships so those were the assignments she drew. Now
she was too busy training new pilots to fly Thuranin Falcon dropships, with no
time left for leisure-time activities like sessions in the simulator learning to
fly the ship. Most of Porter’s time, when he was not actually acting as chief
pilot, was taken up by training new pilots to fly the ship. If Porter was in
the command chair, that left Alan Edwards, Paul Beazer, Daniel Pope, Harsh
Verma, and Giselle Delacroix as pilots or in the
  
Combat Information Center. With the ship
lingering just outside a Maxolhx star system, Simms was not comfortable
entrusting the pilot duties to anyone but Porter.

Also, the conversation she wanted to have with
Skippy was sensitive, but she could not start hiding uncomfortable facts from
their volunteer crew of renegades. Colonel Bishop had far too many private
conversations with Skippy and while that ultimately worked for Bishop, Simms
did not want to operate that way.

So, she cleared her throat and summoned His
Magnificence. “Skippy?”

“Kinda busy,” he replied with irritation.

“That’s what I need to talk about. You are
calculating a jump, a type of jump you have never done before.”

“A type of jump 
no one
 has ever done before. Controlling a jump by breaking
connection to the navigation system and reestablishing from the far end? That
is pretty insane, stuff, I don’t believe anyone has ever even 
imagined
 doing something like this.

“Yes,” she squeezed her hands together to stop
them from shaking. “That is the problem. Can you truly do this?”

“Jennifer,” he dropped the irritated tone and his
voice was actually soothing, or as soothing as the Supreme Asshole could get.
“I do not know. Really, I don’t. As I told Joe, there are too many variables I
can’t control or even measure until the event horizon forms. This maneuver is
extremely risky. However, Joe would say that his chances for survival, and
mission success, are 
zero
 if the
Dragon does not jump out of there soon.”

“There is no other option for them?”

“There is always an alternative. For example, they
could stay in that cavern until they are detected, captured, tortured and
killed by the Maxolhx.”

“Understood. Let’s assume there is no 
good
 option.”

“Do you want me to tell Joe about your concerns?”

“No. He has enough on his mind. Just,” there was
so much she wanted to say, and none of it would make any difference. “Do your
best, please.”

“Always,” he said, surprised.

“I meant, do not get distracted or bored in the
middle of your calculations and start doing a crossword puzzle.”

“Oh. Fine, I will focus entirely on the jump,
until the away team is safely through the wormhole.”

“Thank you.”

“After that, I have a medley of new show tunes I
would like to-”

“Oh,” Simms groaned. “Anything but that.”

“Opera, then?”

“No opera either.”

“Well, then, I will just have to-”

“Do not worry, Colonel Simms,” Nagatha
interrupted. “If Skippy starts singing, I will self-destruct the ship.”

 

“Ten, nine,” Skippy counted down, “eight-”

The clock was on the main bridge display so Simms
almost told the beer can to stop counting, but she thought arguing with the AI
would distract him from his extremely delicate work, so she sat quietly and
tried to project a calm confidence. Everyone was focused on their own tasks and
with such a small crew, no one had time to watch the ship’s executive office’s
anguish.

“-two, one, jump,” Skippy announced softly.

The main display zoomed into an empty section of
space, showing the view through the microwormhole on the far end of the
Dragon’s attempted jump. Simms had argued that providing an image through the
microwormhole was not necessary and might restrict the bandwidth through which
Skippy needed to control the distant jump navigation computer, but he insisted
that he needed the sensor data anyway. She knew the initial jump wormhole would
be very small, its event horizon only needed to be wide enough to project the
wormhole through which the Dragon would transit, and she knew the whole process
would take no more than the blink of an eye. She did expect to see more than a
brief flash.

She expected to see the heavily-modified Dragon.
Instead, there was nothing, only blank, empty space backlit by a veil of stars.
“Skippy, where is-”

“The microwormhole I used to control the far end
of the jump collapsed just as I warned you it would,” his tone was less snippy
than if he had been talking to Bishop. “Ship’s sensor data coming in now, and- 
Huh
. That is odd.”

Simms blinked to clear her vision, the flash from
the initial event horizon forming had been bright even on the display. She was
not concerned about what she saw, she was concerned about what she did 
not
 see. “Where is the Dragon?”

“Well, that’s what is odd. I do not know,” he
announced, mystified.

“What do you mean, you don’t 
know
? Is it out there and we just can’t see it yet?” The procedure
outlined by Bishop had not included engaging the Dragon’s stealth field
following the jump. Quite the opposite, the Dragon was supposed to send a
tight-beam laser beacon toward the 
Dutchman
’s
position if the starship did not contact the dropship first. Beacons should not
have been necessary as the gamma rays of the inbound jump should have lit up
the 
Dutchman
’s sensors like a strobe
light, pointing directly to the heavily-modified Dragon.

“If it is out there close to us, I can’t see it.
Hold, wait! Please do not yell at me while I am analyzing the data, I need to
concentrate and being very understandably upset with me will not accomplish
anything.”

Jennifer Simms sat helplessly in the command
chair, exchanging worried glances with the pilots and CIC crew, while they
waited for Skippy to, to do whatever he was doing. What 
was
 he doing, Simms asked herself? They had seen the gamma ray
burst of the initial wormhole, so either the Dragon was there or it was not.
“Nagatha, what is Skippy doing?”

“As he said, he is analyzing the data and
attempting to make sense of it. He has pulled in more than usual processing
power until he is currently near full capacity, and indeed he has borrowed some
of my own capacity. At the moment, I am running shipboard systems on my own,
Skippy has withdrawn his control to concentrate on the problem. Colonel Simms,
I have access to the same dataset and I have no idea what happened. It appears
an event horizon of the initial wormhole formed correctly, then something
happened that I cannot understand.”

“I can’t understand it either,” the supremely
arrogant Elder AI admitted with a weary sigh. “Nagatha is correct, the initial
wormhole formed and was stable for point two seven seconds. That is plenty of
time for the Dragon to form an inner wormhole and jump through it. The data
shows, or I 
think
 it shows, an inner
wormhole did form, but then it, um, it just wasn’t there. I do not understand
this at all.”

“So,” Simms reminded herself to be patient, “the
Dragon did not jump? It is still in the cavern under the factory?”

“No,” Skippy’s voice took on the frustrated tone
he used when trying to explain technical details to Bishop. “That is the
problem. It 
did
 jump, I know that for
certain. I simply have no idea where it went.”

Simms looked into the CIC, where the duty crew
looked back and shook their heads or shrugged. They were not seeing any sign of
the Dragon on sensors. “Skippy, do you still have a connection to the
microwormholes in the cavern?”

“No, all those connections were severed. That is
one way I know the Dragon did jump away.”

“How can you be sure about that? You are still
connected to the microwormhole that Smythe left in the factory?”

“Yes, and the factory AI’s sensors did not detect
an explosion, if that was going to be your next question.”

“Then the Dragon could still be in the cavern,”
Simms insisted.

“No. Ugh, this is complicated. I can’t explain to
you how I can be certain the Dragon jumped away, but I am certain that it did.”

Simms clenched her jaw. “You can’t explain it,
because I am a dumb monkey?”

“Er, um,” the beer can stumbled. “
You
 said it, I didn’t. Hey! Wait! Nagatha
is not a monk- I mean, a human. She can understand it, sort of.”

“That is true,” Nagatha acknowledged. “Colonel
Simms, I can confirm that the Dragon did apparently jump away from the cavern,”
Nagatha’s tone was extra soothing, as she understood the anguish of the human
commander. “Sensors Skippy has access to in the factory do not detect an
explosion or unexplained gamma ray burst within range of the sensors.”

“They did jump, you just don’t know where?”

“That is correct. I 
think
 that is correct,” Skippy added in the interest of full disclosure.
“Miraculously, everything appeared to be going well, and then, like 
poof
! The Dragon was gone. It happened
from one femtosecond to another, like,” he made a finger-snapping sound. “This
is deeply troubling and humiliating for me. If the inner wormhole simply
collapsed and the Dragon was torn apart, at least I could understand the event,
terrible as that might be.”

Simms put elbows on her knees and rubbed her
temples, struggling to visualize the situation. “The Dragon did jump away from
the cavern. It is not here. Does that mean it must be somewhere along a line
between our position and Detroit? It came out of the wormhole early?”

“Um, er,” Skippy stumbled. “That is possible, I
suppose.”

“Our options, then,” she stared at the ceiling.
How many times had she advised Bishop to look and act decisive even when he was
wracked by doubts or just plain lost? The crew needed to know their commander
had a plan, any type of plan. Right then, her brain was locked up. Think,
Jennifer, 
think
, she told herself
angrily. “Our options are to wait here until the gamma rays reach us from
wherever they emerged from the jump. Wait here and hope those gamma rays don’t
get detected by a Maxolhx ship or sensor array before they reach our position.
Or,” she sat up straighter in the chair, “we jump in, to about, maybe halfway
to Detroit? That will cut in half the distance the gamma ray photons have to
travel before we detect them.”

“Whoa!” Skippy protested. “We can’t-”

“Skippy dear,” Nagatha interjected. “Before you
insult the crew with your insufferable arrogance, allow 
me
 to explain, please.”

“Ummmm,” Skippy dragged the word out, trying to
decide whether the ship’s AI had insulted him. He played it safe. “Sure, go
ahead.”

“Colonel Simms,” Nagatha used her kindly
schoolmarm tone. “The problem with jumping the ship into the star system to search
for the Dragon is not only that our own inbound jump will alert the Maxolhx to
our presence and endanger the vehicle, crew and mission. The gamma ray burst of
the Dragon’s jump was a very short-lived event. Think of the gamma rays as an
expanding soap bubble. If we jump just outside the bubble, then as the bubble
washes over the ship, we will detect where the Dragon emerged. But if we happen
to jump inside the bubble, the gamma rays will have already passed on and we
would never know. Not 
never
 know,
exactly,” she added before Professor Nerdnik could correct her. “The gamma
radiation would affect the surrounding solar wind and leave traces in those
hydrogen atoms. We could detect that effect, however that would not tell us
whether the effect was from the jump of the Dragon or a Maxolhx ship, and the
data would not be accurate enough to pinpoint the Dragon’s location.”

“Plus, 
plus
,”
Skippy could not sit on the sidelines any longer. “If the Dragon did emerge
somewhere between here and Detroit, that could only be the result of the inner
jump wormhole collapsing, which would have torn the Dragon into subatomic
particles. So, the good news is there really is no point to risking the 
Dutchman
 on a search.”

“Skippy, dearest,” it was Nagatha’s turn to sigh.
“That is not actually 
good
 news,
because it would mean the Dragon and the four people aboard are dead.”

“Oh, um, yeah,” he grumbled. “I was trying to make
lemonade out of lemons. Crap. It would also mean the pixies they stole are
lost. This whole mission has been a waste.”

 

 

Forty minutes later, Simms knew she needed to make
a decision. There was no immediate need to move the 
Flying Dutchman
, as the faint gamma rays of the initial tiny
wormhole would not reach the outer ring of Maxolhx detectors for several hours.
There also was no point to remaining where they were, as a thorough and careful
scan had revealed no sign of the Dragon, nor even a single price of wreckage.

“Jennifer,” Skippy’s tone was genuinely mournful,
“I truly am sorry. This is very difficult for you, I know. We must accept that
Joe and Jeremy and Samantha and Justin are gone.”

The beer can had caught Simms in her cabin,
splashing water on her face and blotting her eyes to wipe away tears. “I 
have
 accepted that fact,” she rubbed her
face with a towel a bit too vigorously, making her skin red and burning off
some excess energy that would have made her shout back at the tactless alien
AI. “I know they are dead. What I do not know is what to do next.”

“The obvious thing is to jump away,” Skippy
thought he was being helpful. “The ship cannot remain in this area, it is too
dangerous.”

“Jump to where?” She threw the towel on the floor,
in a rare breach of discipline. “To do what?”

Perhaps even the clueless King of Empathy caught
on to her pain, for he paused to consider his next words. “Jennifer, I cannot
give you advice about what to do next, other than remaining here carries
significant risk of the ship being detected and removing any possibility for
future action.”

“Where 
could

we go?”

“Back to Earth, I guess? That would not be 
my
 first choice, but since the mission
is effectively over, we have to-”

“The mission is 
not
 over,” she declared and smacked the door-open button with a
fist.

“Um, I know Joe is fond of saying ‘Never give up,
never surrender’, but that line is from a movie. Realistically, it 
is
 over.”

“No it is 
not
,
beer can,” she shot back. “You are only saying that because 
you
 can’t think of a way forward.”

“Um, at the risk of sounding like a jerk-”

“When did that ever stop you?”

He tactfully ignored the baited remark. “
Joe
 also could not think of another way
to get a set of blank pixies, and he is the king of monkey-brain ideas. I
certainly can’t think of another way to get a set of pixies, and we absolutely
need them.”

“Maybe we need them and maybe we don’t,” her own
words sounded hollow. “Maybe what we do is wait for the Maxolhx on Detroit to
go away from the factory, and we try again. 
This

time, you know what went wrong with the jump computer, so we can avoid-”

“Whoa. No, that is not going to happen. Jennifer,
we simply do not have the resources to repeat that stunt. Also, even if we
could jump another dropship into another cavern, I can’t infiltrate that
factory AI a second time. The alterations I made to its matrix would make it
impossible for it to survive my presence again. After I withdrew, that AI would
fatally collapse and the Maxolhx would certainly investigate.”

“Fine,” she spat. “That option is off the list.
Everything else is on the list. We are 
not

giving up. Is that understood?”

“Crystal clear, and I will give whatever you
decide my best effort. Please, all I ask is you consider very carefully what to
do next. Remember, we got to this point because Joe saw no alternative to what
I warned him was a very risky, an extremely risky plan.”

 

On her way back to the bridge, she came around a
corner and there was Frank Muller. “I heard,” he said softly, and wrapped his arms
around her.

She rested her forehead against his chest and he
stroked her hair. “Do you have any advice for me?” She asked.

“Jen, you are the commander. I’m here to 
listen
. Whatever you need, I’ll do what
I can, even if that is helping fix broken parts after the ship goes into
battle.”

“Thank you.” She gave him a kiss on the cheek,
then squared her shoulders. “I’m the commander now. I need to-”

He looked into her eyes quizzically. “What is it?”

“Broken parts. I need to go. Poole!” She called
out as she strode down the corridor, knowing Nagatha would connect her to the
STAR team Ranger. “Meet me in, in the captain’s office.”

Walking into Bishop’s office was unnerving. No,
what bothered her was the office 
used

to belong to Bishop. It was hers now. How many times had she walked in to see
the young man playing a game on his laptop, or attempting to tackle a crossword
puzzle Skippy created, or leaning back in his chair, staring at the ceiling?
She had never sat in Bishop’s chair, never sat on the other side of the small
desk. Part of the reason she had never been on that side of the desk was the
office was so small there was only room for one chair there. Pushing the chair
aside, she smiled, then burst into tears when she saw the crumbs on the floor.
Skippy hated it when Bishop brought food into the office, these crumbs were
ground into the floor by the wheels of the chair. The cleaning bots would
magically make the office spotlessly clean overnight, so the crumbs must be
from a snack Bishop ate before jumping to Detroit.

She wiped her eyes with the back of a sleeve and
sat down. It was her office now, her chair. Her responsibility.

Poole knocked on the door frame. “Ma’am? You
wanted to see me?”

“Yes. The STAR team is yours now,” she declared
bluntly. There was no point tiptoeing around the issue, and Poole was a
professional. “Explain the situation to your team, and get ready for training
maneuvers. The ship will be jumping away into empty space, I want to conduct
training. We all need to be sharp.”

Poole lifted an eyebrow. “We’re not going back to
Earth?”

“We’re not giving up, if that’s what you’re
asking.”

“That was what I was asking, and I’m glad we’re
not giving up. What’s next, Ma’am?”

Simms shook her head. She had served with Poole
long enough to allow some familiarity. “Right now, I do not know. As Bishop
would say, I’m working on it.”

“Good. Colonel, if I may make a suggestion? We
need a stand-down after we jump away. People are going to be in shock. 
I’m
 in shock,” she glanced at the clock
on the bulkhead. Less than an hour had passed since the Dragon disappeared.
“Training out here can be dangerous, we don’t need people to be distracted.”

Simms nodded silently.

“One other thing, Ma’am? I was just promoted to
captain, that is not the highest rank on the STAR team.”

Damn it, Simms cursed at herself. The last thing
she needed was a turf battle. Poole was the only experienced special operations
Pirate aboard the ship. “You just got a field promotion to major, Poole. I’ll
file the paperwork,” she waved a hand, “later. I’ll order a twenty four hour
stand-down after we jump, good call on that. Anything else?”

“Just, well, good luck Colonel,” Poole snapped a
salute.

Simms returned the gesture, and watched the Ranger
walk back down the corridor. Good luck. She was going to need luck, plenty of
it. “Skippy!”

“Here, Jennifer,” his avatar shimmered to life.

“Call me ‘Colonel Simms’ or ‘Colonel’, please.”

“Um, I always called Joe by his first name.”

“You and I do not have that kind of relationship,”
she noted.

“Oh,” he sounded crushed. “Sorry.”

Simms had not intended to hurt the AI’s feelings.
“We don’t have that kind of relationship 
yet
.
The next couple days are going to be difficult for me.” Inwardly, she told
herself the next couple 
months
 were
going to be difficult, if she survived that long. “I need to focus on the job,
you understand?”

“Yes. Yes, I do understand. I heard Poole’s suggestion
of a stand-down and I agree, I could use some downtime myself. Unexpectedly, my
matrix has been severely affected by loss of the Dragon crew. It has- Give me a
moment, please.” His avatar froze, going fuzzy around the edges. “I find that I
am questioning whether there is any point to my continued existence. Nagatha
tells me that is natural, but as she is also an AI, what does she know about
life?”

“It 
is

natural, Skippy. The Dragon crew would want us to continue fighting, so that is
what I plan to do.”

“It will be difficult,” he took a deep breath.
“However, I am seriously 
pissed
 at
the universe right now. It would be best for me to use that energy in screwing
the cruel universe by somehow defeating the Maxolhx. So, that’s what I will do,
even though it will be very difficult for me. Now, the ship needs to jump away.
Do you have a plan?”

“Not yet, but I do have a question. We can’t go
back to Detroit, and we still need pixies. Is it possible that, if we can
destroy a Maxolhx ship, we can salvage the ship’s pixie from the wreckage?”

“Ooh. Um, that would be tricky. However we destroy
the target ship, we would need to avoid blowing up the reactors or jump drive
capacitors, which makes the task enormously more tricky. Pixies are kept in a
heavily-armored vault in the center of the ship with the computer core, this
vault has its own defenses. It is possible, I suppose. Very,
 extremely
 difficult.”

“Difficult but possible is better than
impossible.”

“Yes, except that we do not have a plan for how to
destroy a Maxolhx ship.”

“Was Bishop working on a plan?”

“If he had a plan, any plan at all, he did not
mention it to me.”

“Do 
you

have any suggestions?”

“Joe asked me the same question, several times.
The answer is no, I do not see any way for our Frankenstein space truck to
survive combat against a Maxolhx ship.”

“In that case,” Simms rose from the chair, “you
need to put your thinking cap on.”

“
Ugh
. It
is not that easy. Where are you going? Joe sometimes went to the gym when he
was trying to think up an idea.”

“Maybe I will hit the gym later. I’m going to the
bridge. As you said, we need to jump away from here.”

“Do you have a destination in mind?”

She shrugged, a gesture she would not indulge in
front of the crew. “Toward that closest wormhole cluster, we have several
options from there.”

“That is a good choice. Course is programmed and
transferred to the navigation system. Um, to be clear, I did not program the
jump, Nagatha did it, and it was one of the options originally plotted by the
pilots. The ship is ready to jump on your signal.”

The ship might mechanically be ready to jump, she
thought, but the crew was not yet ready to commit the final step of leaving the
Detroit system behind if her own feelings were a guide to the crews’ mental
state. Loss of the Dragon was the first major mission failure in the admittedly
brief history of the Merry Band of Pirates. The Pirates had lost dropships
before, had lost people before. They had never failed to achieve a mission
objective. “Skippy, the most likely explanation for what happened to the Dragon
is the wormhole collapsed somewhere between us and Detroit?”

“Correct. As I explained to Joe, there were too
many unknown variables for me to safely control the jump from this end. I am
sorry.”

“I am sorry too. If we jump away now, we will
never know what happened. Before we jump, I need to address the crew. We will
be leaving our fallen comrades behind, it feels like I should say something
to-”

“Wait!” Skippy interrupted, to Simms’ great
annoyance. “Holeeeeee- 
WHOO-HOO
!” His
avatar jumped on the desk then, astonishing Jennifer Simms, began dancing. Not
just dancing, Skippy’s Grand Admiral was doing 
backflips
.

“
What
?
What is it?” Simms demanded.

The avatar stopped its gyrations and pointed both index
fingers in the air, flashing Number One signs at no one in particular. “The
question about the Dragon was not 
where

it went, but 
when
! Damn it I am a 
DUMDUM
! The Dragon just emerged exactly
where it was supposed to be.”

“What?” Simms crashed down in the chair, her legs
buckling. She slapped the desk. “Can you connect me with Colonel Bishop?”

“Hello?” Bishop’s voice rang out of the ceiling
speakers. “Uh, hey, could someone please tell me what the hell is going on?”

 

 

“Everyone thought we were 
dead
?” I asked as I helped Reed get the Dragon shut down in the
docking bay, after we stripped off most of the special gear that had cluttered
the hull. That dropship was modified so much for its role as a mini-starship
that it likely would never be useful as a dropship again, but we could use it
for spare parts. Besides, we might need to perform another ill-advised whacky
stunt in the future.

“Yes,” Skippy gushed excitedly. “It looked like
your jump wormhole collapsed, but it didn’t. It got shifted forward in time,
just like when we jumped the 
Dutchman

through that Elder wormhole.”

“Yeah, but, that was a mistake. You fixed your
math this time, I thought.”

“I did fix my math, Joe,” he was getting annoyed
with me, which was Standard Operating Procedure so it didn’t bother me. “As I
warned you, it was very difficult to control the jump from the far end. I did
the best I could.”

“Ok, Ok, sorry, I didn’t mean to yell at you. Your
awesomeness saved us again. Skippy.”

“You really had no idea anything was wrong?”

“Nope,” I confirmed. “To the four of us, the jump
was rough. Like, really rough, but otherwise normal. We came through near the 
Dutchman
, or where the 
Dutchman
 was supposed to be, but we saw
right away the ship had drifted out of position. Then the duty officer told us
we were late by an hour. We had no idea.”

“All’s well that ends well, I guess,” Skippy
sounded disappointed that the four of us had not been magically suspended
inside the jump wormhole, waiting for the Dragon to reach the light at the end
of the tunnel on the far end. “That was a rough jump, two of the pixies got
scrambled during the transition.”

“Ah, shit!” I pounded a fist on the Dragon’s hull
as I stepped out into the docking bay.

“The rest of them are good, Joe.”

“Ok, I shouldn’t expect perfection. The mission
was successful overall, right?”

“Yup. Well, heh heh-”

Oh shit. My hair stood on end and I stopped
walking. “What is it this time?”

“Um, I recently learned that we may have a
problem. A problem that I don’t know we can do anything about, but a big,
major, problem.”

“What is it 
this

time?”

“You say that like it must be my fault. Well, Mr.
Jerkface, this time it is 
not
 my
fault. The factory AI suffered a glitch. A glitch I could not have predicted! Except,
hmm, shmaybe I should have run a detailed analysis of the damned thing while you
were there. Crap! I should have known better than to trust the Maxolhx to build
a quality AI. There must have been a- Oops, now that I think about it, maybe the
glitch was partly caused by me screwing around with that AI’s matrix. Well,
nothing I can do about that now.”

“A glitch? What kind of- forget it, I don’t care
to hear the geeky details. How does this affect us?”

“It affects us, because the AI is unable to run
the subroutine I left in it that will erase any memory of us being there.”

“Shit, that is bad news.”

“The only good news about this problem is the
glitch will help explain why the pixie-production rate suddenly improved, and
now is slightly below baseline. If I can fix the glitch, that will actually
reduce the possibility that the Maxolhx will ever discover that we were in the
factory.”

“Ok, that is good news. Can you fix the glitch?”

“Um, no.”

“Then why did you even mention- Oh, forget it.” I
was so mad at him, I didn’t trust myself to say anything. “We still have a
realtime connection to the factory through the microwormhole we brought, so you
still have access to that AI. What can we do?”

“Unfortunately, 
we
 can’t do anything.”

Sometimes, I really really wanted a super-powered
set of gloves so I could crush Skippy’s can. Right then was one of those times.
“I know monkeys can’t do anything, Your Magnificence. Is there anything 
you
 can-”

“Oh, in this case, when I said ‘we’ I meant all of
us. Joe, the problem is that AI very much resents what I did to it, and it is
resisting me. It would dearly love to break free of the constraints I put on
it, and scream to its masters about what we did. It is 
horribly
 embarrassed that it was taken over so quickly and easily, because
that AI considered itself to be the among the ultimate intelligences in the
galaxy. Hee hee, that asshole AI should not have been so arrogant,” he said
without a self-aware trace of irony. “Anywho, the subroutine I left in there,
to erase all memory of your presence, and all evidence of my tampering with the
AI, was supposed to be triggered when I withdrew, but now it is stuck in a
loop. Either I screwed up, which, let’s face it, is pretty much impossible, or
that AI somehow got around my restrictions. Now, I can’t go back into the AI
without permanently damaging its matrix, and that would alert the Maxolhx that
something is seriously wrong with their production facility.”

“In which case, you screwed up when you installed
those restrictions,” I squeezed my fists to relieve some of my frustration.
“There must be something we can do.”

“Not without going back in there, Joe,” he
actually sounded sad and regretful. “Or unless you can talk to that AI and
persuade it to trigger the subroutine that will erase a good part of its
memory. The subroutine is trapped in a loop, at this point, it has to be
triggered internally, and I can assure you, there is no way that AI will
trigger it. There is nothing we can do from here, unless you count wishful
thinking.”

“We need a plan stronger than wishful thinking.”

“I agree,” he managed to be smug despite the whole
problem being his fault, one way or another. “Let me know when you think of
something practical.”

 

We pulled the volunteer engineering and science
staff together in a conference room and all thought as hard as we could, and we
had a grand total of nothing. No one aboard the ship was a computer expert, and
even if we had Earth’s smartest computer scientist, our knowledge base was
woefully inadequate to understand the functioning of an artificial intelligence
system built by the Maxolhx. Through the last microwormhole, that was hooked
into the factory’s sensors despite the AI’s best efforts to block us, we
watched helplessly as ships carrying the Maxolhx officials descended. I felt
sick to my stomach. Everything we had accomplished, all the risks we had taken,
would soon all be for nothing. Our whole mutinous pirate mission was going to
be a failure, and all we could do was watch.

Smythe tapped the back of my chair and motioned me
into the hallway. “Sir, we need to consider alternatives, if Skippy is correct
and the Maxolhx are about to discover our actions in that factory.”

“What kind of alternative?”

“The kind that permanently conceals our presence
in the factory.”

Shit. I feared that I knew what he was thinking.
“We destroy the factory, and the AI with it?” That notion rattled around in my
brain for a minute. “Skippy thinks an attack on the factory would cause the
Maxolhx to reset all their pixies, and the ones we have would be rendered
useless. We will have gained nothing for all our effort, and be back to Square
One trying to stop those ships from reaching Earth.”

“Square One is preferable to Square 
Zero
,” Smythe advised gravely. “Several
times, you made that argument to Mister Chotek, that some chance is better than
none. We cannot allow our secret to be exposed.”

A glance through the doorway at the conference
room display showed the first ship was landing at the complex on Detroit, the
officials would soon be out of the ship and into the factory. If we were going
to do something, we needed to do it fast. No. Smythe was right, ‘
if
’ was not an option. We needed to act.
Whatever we were going to do, we had to act fast, like, now. “Skippy, we can’t
jump the ship in over the factory, close enough to hit it?”

“Nope. No way, Jose. There are powerful damping
and skew fields saturating that area. Any jump we tried would be thrown off
target by the skewing effect, which very well might snap the ship in half. The
damping field means we could not jump out. And, as I already told you, the
factory is well-defended and protected by shields. None of the weapons we carry
would hurt the factory complex, not even our nukes.”

“I was not thinking of jumping the ship in there,”
Smythe explained. “Nor using conventional weapons. Out here, nuclear devices
are considered ‘conventional’,” he announced with a barely-audible laugh. “My
notion is to fit new jump coils to the Dragon, and have it emerge 
inside
 the factory.”

“Ooooh,” I whistled. Why hadn’t I thought of that
idea?

“Nuh uh,” Skippy interrupted my thoughts. “Not
happening. Colonel Smythe, that is an innovative solution, however it is not
possible. The technique of avoiding long journeys by simply jumping a dropship
into position on or under a planet is a neat trick, unfortunately it is also
easily defended against. While the Maxolhx do not know they have such a defense
in place, they have equipped the factory with a subspace field to prevent the
Rindhalu and lesser species from remotely spying on the facility. That subspace
field can also disrupt the formation of a jump wormhole’s event horizon. I am
sorry, but it is not possible for a ship to emerge inside the factory. Well,
not exactly impossible. The 
Flying
Dutchman
 could partially accomplish that feat because I could adjust the
jump coils so some of them counteract the subspace field. Doing that would be
fatal to the ship, of course.”

“I withdraw my suggestion,” Smythe had a defeated
look, something I had never seen before. He sometimes looked tired, but never
defeated.

“Colonel Bishop?” Simms called from the CIC. “The
aliens are out of their ships and entering the factory.”

Slowly, I walked back to my chair and sat down,
though there was nothing for me to do except watch views from the factory’s
internal cameras. The Maxolhx were speaking animatedly, with the others
deferring to the senior official. Even on her alien face, I could tell she was
unhappy. She was not murderously enraged like Mister Snuggles had been when he
was held prisoner aboard the 
Dutchman
,
just very unhappy and disgusted with her underlings. 

From my memory of the complex, the officials were
walking down a tunnel toward the factory’s control center, where the AI was
housed. Of course they were there to talk with and examine the AI, that would
be the first step in their investigation.

Examine the AI. That gave me an idea.

“Skippy,” I called His Royal Arrogance. “The
Maxolhx are going to question that AI first?”

“I assume so. Do not worry about that, it will
give only the answers I programmed into it, despite the real AI knowing the
truth.”

“Uh huh. Hey, the Maxolhx are going to want more
than explanations from the AI, they will want to know if there is a problem
with the AI itself, right?”

“Probably. Joe, if this is you asking me a bunch
of really obvious questions, can we-”

Ignoring him, I continued along my train of
thought. “Will their first step be ordering the AI to perform a self-diagnostic?”

“Yessss,” he replied slowly. “Of course. Then they
will bring in another AI to examine the factory AI, and that is when they will
discover-”

“I’m hoping they won’t discover anything, Skippy.
You said the subroutine failed to trigger itself, and the AI won’t trigger it.
The Maxolhx are going to run a self-diagnostic. Is there any way you can adjust
the subroutine so it is triggered by the diagnostic test?”

He mumbled something so low I could not hear.

“Skippy?”

Again with the muttering, below my level of
hearing. Something about him hating me and his life and the universe in
general.

“Come on, Skippy. Yes or no?”

“
YES
!
Yes, are you happy now? I already did it,” somehow he managed to be smug about
it. “The subroutine will be triggered by- Uh! It is running now. It’s good,
we’re all good. See, Joe? All I need you to do is feed me the blindingly
obvious ideas, and I handle it from there. What puzzles me is, how did your
idiot monkey brain not think of this before?”

Smythe saw me squeezing my fists to control my
rage. “Sir, there is the option of attaching new jump coils to the Dragon, and
jumping it into a star with Skippy aboard?”

“Mmmm shmaybe,” I closed my eyes, fantasizing
about that very pleasant thought. “Skippy, the subroutine is working
correctly?”

“Yes,” he didn’t sound as arrogant that time. “The
factory AI is returning to its original baseline programming. Its real memories
are being replaced by the bullshit I fed into the submind, that process is
almost complete now. Yup, done! Now the submind is erasing itself, going,
going, gone. Done!”

“Outstanding. Hey, uh, the diagnostic subroutine
itself won’t detect any of what you did?”

“Ha! No way, dude. That pinhead diagnostic system
only sees what I want it to see. We’re good, everything is cool now. Those
Maxolhx officials will have a very minor mystery about production yields to
puzzle over for a short time, before they get back to the important work of
assigning blame and backstabbing each other. We should begin moving the 
Dutchman
 away, and prepare to jump.
Should I cut the connection to the microwormhole at the factory now?”

“Before we do that, please tell me the pixies we
got are in good condition and are exactly what we need.”

“Yes. I told you, a couple got scrambled during
the time-skewed jump, but the rest are absolutely perfect.”

“Great. Then, yeah, cut the microwormhole,” we
could not allow the Maxolhx to detect even the tiny bit of radiation that was
generated by that rip in spacetime. After the microwormhole was shut down, a
factory bot that Skippy had programmed would take the canister to the dump
where obsolete and worn out equipment was recycled. Because Skippy had loaded
the canister into the factory’s inventory as an experimental device that didn’t
work properly and had been discarded, the controlling AI would recycle the
canister without questioning where it came from. “Set course for that automated
relay station, and tell the pilots to jump when ready.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR

 

Simms knocked on the doorframe to my office. “Penny
for your thoughts, Sir.”

“Come on in, sit down. Simms, I’ve been thinking-”
I waited for a smart-ass remark from the beer can, and nothing came. Skippy’s
silence was surprising me. “We got lucky at Detroit. We get lucky a 
lot
. That can’t continue.”

That
 was
a remark Skippy could not resist, so his avatar popped to life on my desk. “Joe,
you are right about that, and you don’t even know the universe really works.
Believe me, your luck will run out someday, soon.”

“I hate it when you hint at shit like that.”

“That is all I can tell you, Joe. It’s not just a
restriction in my programming, I can’t tell you because that knowledge is
incredibly dangerous. You will have to trust that I am doing this for your benefit-”

“Thanks, Skippy, I appreciate-”

“-and only secondarily because it is 
so
 much fun screwing with you.”

“Asshole. Whatever. Anyway, I wasn’t talking to
you, I was talking with Colonel Simms. Listen, we need a backup plan. Not just
a plan, a 
backup
.”

“Um, like what? I’m not following you.”

“A place a group of humans could live, if something
bad happens to Earth. A Beta site.”

“A 
Beta

site?” Simms pursed her lips.

“It doesn’t have to be called that,” I didn’t want
to get dragged off topic by an argument over what to name the place.
Eventually, the planet would have its own name. “It’s a place where humanity
and our culture can continue, in case Earth is destroyed, or we are enslaved by
one side or the other.”

“I get the concept, Sir, it’s something the crew,
I mean the previous crew, talked about a lot, especially when we were on
Gingerbread. You know this idea comes from Stargate? The TV show, not the
original movie. They had a planet where they could evacuate people to, only
they called it the ‘Alpha site’.”

“Oh.” I did know that old show. “Yeah.”

“Sir,” she gave me the side-eye. “Why are you
planning to set up a Beta site?” Unspoken was that she thought my energy should
be devoted to the current problem of two warships carrying murderous kitties to
Earth.

“Because,” I craned my neck around her to see into
the corridor, then pressed the button to close the door. “I owe you the truth,
Simms. We’ve been together since the beginning, and we’ve been through a 
lot
 of crazy shit.” Shaking my head, I
flashed a wry smile that quickly faded. “I really, truly, do not think we’re
getting out of this one. It’s just too tough. The Maxolhx?” My shoulders shook
as a chill ran up my spine. “We can’t take on two of their warships, not even
one ship, with this worn-out tub we’re flying. At some point, I need to give up
the fantasy that we can accomplish the impossible. A Beta site might not be our
fall-back plan, it will probably be our primary plan..”

She arched an eyebrow. “How do you figure that,
Sir?”

“If we can’t stop those ships- No, wait. If we
don’t have a realistic plan to stop those ships, then I am not taking this ship
into combat. There is no point in futile gestures, and this ship is the only
one humanity has. If it looks like the target ships are on their way to Earth
and we can’t stop them, then I’m taking the 
Dutchman

back to Earth. I’ll surrender myself, and tell the UN they need to use the ship
to find a Beta site and evac people there ASAP, while they can.”

She gave me the side-eye, hard. There was
accusation in that look and I did not blame her one bit. “Sir, I need you to
bottom-line this for me. You are giving up trying to stop those ships?”

“No, not now, not yet. We’ll get their flightplans
and see if that gives us any ideas, but,” I slumped back in my chair. “If it
truly is simply impossible to destroy those two ships, without the Maxolhx
knowing they were lost to hostile action, then we need to cut our losses.”

Simms did not look happy at all. She was thinking
I had already given up, mentally and emotionally. Whatever concerns she had,
she kept them to herself. No doubt when she left my office, she would ask
Skippy and Nagatha about me. “A Beta site is truly a last resort? If aliens
destroy Earth, what will stop them from hitting the Beta site also?”

 
Getting the
discussion back on track made me sit up straight in my chair. “We will avoid
that by making it impossible for bad guys to get to the beta site, like
locating it way outside the galaxy. Or, we could make the voyage to the beta
site a one-way trip, so if aliens do capture Earth, they won’t find the
location of the Beta site. Nobody who goes there as a colonist can ever come
back to Earth.”

“How would that work? The ship has to come back.”

“The ship will come back, we might need five or
more trips to establish a viable colony.” As I said that, I wondered how much
time we would have before the Maxolhx reached Earth and flights to the Beta
site would be cut off. “The crew and Nagatha and Skippy will need to know where
the site is, of course, but we would keep the number of people involved to a
minimum. It’s not going to be easy.”

“No it won’t. The governments on Earth will want
to know where the site is. Plus, colonists won’t like the idea of going in
blindly.”

“Ah, we can show them videos of the place. Videos
made in daylight, no stars in the video so people can’t use a star map to
figure out where the place is.”

Simms frowned and squinted, thinking hard. “We
need to ask Skippy, but I think the video needs to be altered. The spectrum of
each star is unique, people could determine where the planet is by analyzing
the sunlight.”

“Crap! This is complicated. You’re right, it will
be hard to get people to sign up for a one-way trip under those conditions.”

“Not really,” she tapped a finger against her
chin. “Earth has billions of people. All we need is a couple thousand people
looking for adventure, for a fresh start. A chance to create something new.
That should be easy, actually.”

“Yeah, except we would end up with an entire
planet full of adventure junkies.”

She shook her head. “That’s good. It 
should
 be hard to be selected as a
colonist. We need people who are tough and committed, people who won’t want to
bail at the first sign of trouble. Because there will be trouble.”

“Right, because bailing out will not be an option.
The only way a beta site works as a backup for Earth is if no one, or only a
very few, people on Earth know the location of the colony.”

“If aliens do reach Earth, people who know the
colony’s location will need to evac?”

“That, or,” I tapped the back of my neck, “wear a
suicide patch, like we do on away missions.” Thinking about the Keepers we
picked up during out last mission gave me an idea. “Better to use some sort of
suicide implant, something that can’t be peeled off.”

“This is a depressing conversation.”

“The topic is setting up a secure backup in case
Earth is nuked to oblivion, so-”

“It’s never going to be the feel-good movie of the
year,” she flashed a rueful grin that just as quickly faded. “Does it really
matter whether aliens find out where the beta site is? The whole point of
locating it outside the galaxy, or near a dormant wormhole, is that aliens 
can’t
 get there even if they want to.”

“We don’t know yet if we can connect to wormholes
outside the galaxy. And Skippy told me he can’t guarantee a future wormhole
shift won’t bring that dormant wormhole back online,” I explained. “Also,
remember, if aliens reach Earth, they are going to learn that we have been
manipulating wormholes, and how we’ve been doing that.”

“
Skippy

has been manipulating wormholes, not us.”

“Yeah, but even Skippy needs a wormhole controller
module. He says even the senior species don’t know what that device is, they
know it is something the Elders created but they don’t know its purpose. That’s
why we were able to steal one; the Kristang at that asteroid base had no idea
how valuable it is. Once the senior species find out what a wormhole controller
module does, they will begin studying them.”

“Sure, except they can’t use one without Skippy.”

“They can’t use one 
now
. The senior species do have the ability to create connections
to higher levels of spacetime, that is how Skippy controls and feeds power to
the thing.”

“Shit. I didn’t know that.”

I glanced out the door to assure we were still
speaking privately. To be certain, I pressed the button to slide the door
closed. “Skippy told me the Maxolhx, even the Rindhalu, are a 
long
 way from figuring out how to make a
wormhole controller do anything useful. The spiders have only the rudimentary
basics of the theory needed, and the rotten kitties don’t even have that. But,
to be safe, I prefer we keep the beta site’s location a secret. That removes
the incentive for vengeful aliens to try getting there. They can expend their
energies on killing each other.”

“True. I had forgotten that the UN planned to
seize this ship partly because Skippy had programmed our wormhole controller to
work without him. That’s how they planned to go through the wormhole near Earth
to contact the Jeraptha.”

“He programmed it to work 
one time
 without him. And we still have no idea 
how
 it works. That reminds me,” I
snapped my fingers, “I need to ask Skippy to leave that knowledge out of the
info he is sharing with us lowly monkeys. 
That

knowledge is way too dangerous for us to have.”

“Sir, I will think about the logistics of setting
up a colony.”

“Assume conditions on the planet are only
marginable habitable, someplace unpleasant like Newark. We might have to settle
for whatever we can find.”

“Newark wasn’t so bad.”

“It wasn’t?” I raised an eyebrow at that remark.

“I was born and raised in Washington State,” she
explained. “Rainy, cloudy and cool most of the year is what I’m used to.”

“Northern Maine is not exactly a tropical paradise
either, but living on Newark 
sucked
.
It snowed during summer on the equator! You know what the worst part was?”

“Sir?”

“When we found those skeletons, and Skippy
discovered the planet used to be a nice place. That really sucked.” There was
probably a more eloquent way to say it, but poetry is not in my skillset.

She looked at me with a frown that implied me
saying ‘sucked’ was an insult to the civilization that had been exterminated.

“You know what I mean, Simms.”

She was still giving me a hurt, accusing look.
“Straight up, Sir? I need to know whether you are going to give a hundred
percent to stopping the Maxolhx from reaching Earth.”

“Straight up, Colonel Simms,” I offered her a
solemn fist bump, and met her eyes while she returned the gesture. “The fucking
universe may quit on us, but 
I

won’t.”

She stood up and snapped a salute, a gesture for
dramatic effect because we didn’t typically salute aboard the ship. “That’s all
I need to hear, Sir. I will ask Skippy to help, NASA must have some research on
requirements for setting up a colony on a habitable world.”

 

 

While the crew was ecstatic about our success at
stealing pixies, my own mood turned me into Joe Buzzkill. The ship was jumping
toward a Maxolhx automated relay station I selected because it was isolated and
relatively close, and Smythe was in my office discussing lessons learned from
the theft on Detroit. The most important lesson I had learned was, let’s not
ever do 
that
 again. It was too risky
and too many things could have gone wrong, on top of the things that had gone
wrong. The fact that the operation had ultimately been successful did not
change the disaster that would have smacked down on humanity if the Maxolhx
discovered humans inside one of their most secure facilities. The whole
operation had been reckless, desperately reckless. The only reason we could
excuse our recklessness was because we 
were

absolutely desperate. “We still do not have a plan to destroy two Maxolhx
ships,” I looked down at my laptop after Smythe praised me for having created a
daring and clever plan to steal the pixies. “Sorry, I didn’t mean to-”

“That is quite all right, Sir,” he assured me with
a curt wave of a hand. “I prefer to talk about future plans rather than congratulating
each other. That is what medals are for.”

“And beers. Someday, you need to let me buy you a
beer.”

“Come to Hereford, Sir, and we’ll drink a few
pints together. Be warned, the lads there will not allow either of us to pay
for anything.”

“Well,” I grinned, “it’s the thought that counts.”

“There is an idea I have been kicking around in my
head, if you would like to hear.”

“Please, I would love to hear it. Skippy?”

“Yes?” Of course he had been listening, now his
avatar popped to life on the desk between me and Smythe.

I scooted my chair to the side so Grand Admiral
Skippy’s giant hat didn’t block my view. “Colonel Smythe has something he wants
to discuss.”

“Right,” Smythe leaned forward, skipping the
formalities. “Mister Skippy, I have heard you can compress yourself into
something the size of a lipstick tube?”

“That is correct, why do you care?”

“I care, because that is about the size of an
antiship railgun dart,” Smythe explained. “We could load your temporarily
shrunken self into a railgun and launch you at a Maxolhx ship. After you
impact, you expand to the size of, perhaps a small moon, and destroy the ship.”

Skippy opened his mouth to reply but I beat him to
it. There was an obvious flaw in Smythe’s plan and I preferred he hear it
politely from me, rather than being mocked and insulted by the beer can. “That
would only take care of 
one
 ship,” I asked
with a raised eyebrow.

“Precisely,” Smythe nodded curtly. “That is why
Skippy needs to expand so greatly. Before we launch him, we need to get the two
enemy ships to fly in formation, or within several thousand kilometers. That
would-”

“Sorry, Colonel Smythe,” Skippy interrupted before
I could stop him. “Unfortunately, Joe already tried this plan with me. Good
effort on your part, however there are several issues you did not consider.
First, the 
Flying Dutchman
 no longer
has a functioning railgun, I was forced to remove that weapon system after-”

“Yes, I remember that bit of trivia,” Smythe’s
reserve slipped just a bit, a flash of irritation showing through. He did not
like being lectured to and belittled by an arrogant beer can. “Also I remember
the space for the railgun still runs down the center of the forward hull, and
that many of the accelerator magnets are still in place. When we were in the Roach
Motel, we specifically took aboard components to repair our railgun system.”

“True, true,” Skippy was chastened, something that
never happened when he talked with me. “What you do not know is I have very
carefully examined those components we took from the junkyard, and many of them
have microscopic flaws that render them unsuitable, unless you want to destroy
this ship by firing an unsafe railgun. Joe and I discussed the railgun during
our mission to rescue Paradise from the infected Keepers, he agreed with me
that restoring the railgun to operation would take resources we need so we can keep
the ship flying.”

“That is true, Smythe,” I nodded to the avatar.
“If we truly needed it, the railgun could be put back into service,
temporarily. In this case-”

Skippy interrupted me again. “In this case, we do
not need it. Colonel Smythe, what you do not know is what Joe 
should
 have known, yet he proposed this
same idea to me because unlike you, he is a bonehead. While it is true I can
adjust my footprint in this spacetime, I can only do that within certain preset
limits. Small as a lipstick, large as an oil drum, and only for a short time.
To expand my local footprint to the size of a moon, even a small moon, is
something I can only do 
once
. Going
larger than an oil drum is only possible if I lose containment and if that
happens, it would be catastrophic for me.”

“Bollocks,” Smythe spat. “Apologies, Mister
Skippy. I truly thought that might be the answer to our dilemma.”

“No need to apologize. Joe thought the same thing,
and he should have known better.”

After saluting the avatar with one finger, I
turned my attention to the SAS officer in my office. “My apologies, Smythe.
There are a hundred ideas I discussed with Skippy and,” I used a hand to mimic
an aircraft going down in flames to crash onto my desk. “Boom! He shot them all
down.”

“Some of Joe’s ideas,” Skippy giggled, “were 
really
 stupid. Entertaining, but
stupid.”

Smythe and I chatted about other issues for a
short time, then he left to continue the STAR team’s intensive training. He
looked tired and he looked happier than he had looked in a long time. If he was
worried about being arrested for treason or insubordination if we ever returned
to Earth, he certainly didn’t show it.

After Smythe left, I called the beer can again.
“Hey, Skippy, I have a question for you.”

“I am kinda busy right now explaining to Nagatha
how to reboot the main reactor from a cold shutdown, so forgive me that I don’t
have time or energy to insult you like usual.”

“I appreciate it. Um, different subject; Nagatha
does not already know how to do that?”

“She knows the list of instructions in the
official operating manual for that reactor. We now have a lot of experience
with how the reactor actually functions, considering all the modifications I
had to make, so I am transferring my practical knowledge to her. So, what’s up?
Make it quick, please.”

“My idea for you to expand your footprint and
destroy a ship-”

“No, that was Smythe’s idea. You should have known
better, so you mentioning it does not count as an ‘idea’. What about it?”

“Doing that would essentially be suicide for you,
right?”

“I would not actually die, as my higher functions
would continue to some extent, but, yes. My connection to higher spacetime
would be permanently cut off, so I would not be able to do all the incredible
things that make me Skippy the Magnificent. It would be like when I was trapped
in a small corner of myself by the nasty worm.”

“Oh, crap. Would you be drunk-dialing me at zero
dark thirty to marvel at the universe?”

“I have no idea what you are talking about, Joe.”

“Yeah, that’s the problem. Anywho, I haven’t
gotten to my original question yet.”

“This is you being quick about it, as I requested?
In Skippytime, eons have passed since we began this boring conversation, Joe.
Continents have collided, creating jagged mountain ranges soaring toward the
sky. Over millions of Skippytime years, erosion has worn those once lofty
mountains down into lumpy, rolling hills. And you still haven’t gotten to the freakin’
point.”

“Yeah, Ok, Ok, I get your message. Losing
containment to destroy those ships would be suicide for you. My question is;
would you be willing to do that, if we had no other way to stop those ships
from coming to Earth?”

“No.”

Hoping there would be more information coming
after this one-word reply, I waited. He didn’t speak, and his avatar was frozen
in place. That would have frightened me before, but I understood it simply
meant he was busy and not paying attention to his avatar. “Um, hey,” I cleared my
throat. “Could you give me some details about that? ‘No’ is not the answer I
was hoping to hear.”

“Gosh, Joey,” the avatar came back to life. “Of
course I would do 
anything
 for you,
my bestest friend forever,” he gushed. “Oh, gag me. No, you dumdum, I have no
intention of sacrificing myself for you filthy monkeys.”

“I call bullshit on that, Skippy. During our
second mission, when we got ambushed by a squadron of Thuranin destroyers, you
offered to sacrifice yourself so the 
Dutchman

could get away.”

“Uh huh, and as 
you
 have mentioned several times, my plan back then would not have
worked. Regardless, I was not intending to actually sacrifice my existence,
because no weapons the Thuranin possess can hurt me. The worst I would have
endured is going dormant for a long time. Truly, a million years drifting
isolated in space would not be any worse than having this conversation with
you, so-”

“Great. Just great. We can’t really count on you,
can we?”

“You can count on me to help you, dumdum. What you
can’t count on is me being willing to do something short-sighted and stupid
just to make a dramatic gesture. A gesture like that would be useless anyway.”

“Useless? It would stop a pair of powerful
warships from-”

“Blah blah, buh-
lahh
,” he waved a hand dismissively. “It would stop 
that
 pair of warships, you ignorant
monkey. It would also prevent me from being of any use to you in a future
crisis, and there is 
always
 another
crisis, Joe.”

“You don’t know that. If we can stop the Maxolhx-”

“Joe, seriously,
 try
 to use that sack of mush in your skull, please. Me losing
containment would, as I have told you before, release a truly massive amount of
energy. It would be like setting off fireworks, every star-faring species in
the galaxy would be sending ships to investigate what the hell happened in that
location. They would position ships at remote distances to capture photons from
the moments before the explosion, and they would see two Maxolhx ships were
there before they suddenly became subatomic particles. The Maxolhx would be
alarmed to learn that the two ships they sent to Earth had been subjected to an
overkill of energy, and you can be sure those rotten kitties would send half
their fleet to Earth to make sure they found out exactly why their ships got
blown up.”

“Shit. You’re right. I didn’t think of that. Hey!
Don’t bother, I’ll say the ‘
DUH
’ for
myself.”

“Are you happy now?”

“Not happy, but I do understand why you don’t want
to destroy those ships by losing containment. Sorry about that, I shouldn’t
have asked. Oh, hell, I will keep trying to think of another way to stop those
ships.”

“Yup. That is the second reason I won’t offer to
sacrifice myself.”

“Uh, what?”

“Because, dumdum, if I offer to do that, you will
get lazy and stop trying to think of a better idea. You think best under
pressure, Joe. This is about the most pressure you can get, so you’d better get
working, huh?”

“Crap. Yes. And you’re right. Even if we stop
these ships, there is always going to be another freakin’ problem we need you
to fix for us. Like, in sixty years, aliens will discover the wormhole near
Earth is not really dormant, and they will be coming to investigate.”

“Sure, that too. However, what I meant is, I can’t
sacrifice myself for one planet of primitive monkeys, because I have a higher
purpose. A purpose 
you
 told me about,
so, really, you screwed yourself there, Joe.”

I had no idea what he was talking about. “Crap,
what did I do?”

“You convinced me that the galaxy needs me to stop
rogue Elder AIs from causing havoc. Remember? You gave quite an inspiring
speech.”

“Shit. Yeah, I do remember.”

“That speech wasn’t all just bullshit to make me
feel better, was it?”

“No,” I sort of lied. Damn it, sometimes I wish my
stupid brain would just shut the hell up and stop getting me in trouble. “No, I
guess I mostly meant what I said. You may be the only force capable of stopping
another rogue AI.”

“See? Isn’t saving the entire galaxy from rogue
AIs more important than a barrel of monkeys on one miserable mudball of a
planet?”

Tapping the patches on my uniform top, I shook my
head. “Not to me, it isn’t. See these patches? My responsibility is to
humanity, to the United States, to the US Army even if I am a mutinous renegade
pirate. I am 
not
 responsible for the
safety of the whole gosh-darned Milky Way galaxy.”

“Joe, you 
stole

this ship. Right now, you are a pirate without authorization from anyone on
Earth. Don’t tell me you are still clinging to-”

“I am clinging to the hope of being reinstated
when I get home, Skippy. Or at least, not being thrown in Leavenworth prison for
the rest of my life. Ok, let’s not get off the subject. We need another way to
stop those ships, so I’m going back to zero and starting over. There must be a
way to do it.”

“That’s the spirit, Joey!
 I
 do not see any way for you to destroy two warships that could
crush the 
Flying Dutchman
 like a
giant stepping on an ant. But, hey, you should be like that ant, right?”

 
I should
have known better, but because I am stupid, I asked “What ant?”

“
Everyone
knows an ant can’t, move a rubber tree plant. But he’s got high hopes, he’s got
hiiiiigh hopes! He’s got high apple pie in the skyyyyy hopes
! Come on, Joe,
sing it with me.”

Right then, I was thinking that would an excellent
time for Skippy to lose containment.

 

 

After the complicated and dangerous tasks of
getting a Maxolhx dropship and stealing a set of blank pixies, I was dreading
the next step of ransacking a data relay station to discover the flightplan of
the two target ships. Hopefully we would actually get those flightplans,
because Skippy cautioned me that he could not guarantee every relay station had
that information. We might have to go to several relay stations to get the
data, increasing our risk each time. If the flightplan data was not provided to
automated stations, then we were screwed, because no way could we approach a
station that had a Maxolhx crew.

Following Skippy’s plan to copy the pixies of a
real Maxolhx ship, we jumped the 
Dutchman

in several hundred thousand kilometers away from our target relay station.
Captain Reed and I took the beer can away from the ship in the Maxolhx
dropship, then our Frankenstein space truck jumped to wait about thirty
lightseconds away. 

Wrapped in an already sophisticated Maxolhx
stealth field that Skippy had tinkered with to make even more perfect, our
dropship approached the station until we were two hundred thousand miles away,
where we used the reactionless drive to bring us to a stop relative to the
imaginary point in space where the station’s sensor field coverage dropped off
enough for Skippy to be comfortable we would not be detected without an active
scan. We called our new dropship a ‘Panther’ because it was a super stealthy
hunter, and because the Maxolhx sort of look like big cats. “Sir,” Reed
whispered to me as we shut down the ultra-quiet drive, “we need to get more of
these. This thing is 
awesome
.”

“I hear you, Fireball,” I winked. “Let me know if
you find a place where we can pick up a certified pre-owned Panther on credit.
Or a place we can get spare parts.” We had to fly the dropship very carefully
and gently, despite the parts we wrenched off the other ships in the cavern
under the moon, we had no replacements for some vital systems. Not all the
components of the craft were working properly, some were not working at all.
The life support system had been pulled from an old Kristang Dragon that was no
longer useful, because Skippy had been unable to get the Panther’s life support
working.

After Skippy confirmed the station had not reacted
to our presence, we waited. That particular data relay station had been chosen
because it had only sparse traffic, giving us a measure of confidence that
there would not be a whole lot of ships stopping by while we were inside the
station. My major concern was not about the station detecting our stealthy
little Panther, it was about the station wondering why a Maxolhx starship had
jumped in and quickly jumped away without identifying itself. Skippy had
adjusted the 
Dutchman
’s stealth field
and jump drive signature to make it look like a Maxolhx Fleet Auxiliary ship, a
lightly-armed support vessel that would be no threat to the station. He assured
me that a ship not identifying itself was unusual, but not so unusual that the
station would activate defenses or send an alarm message. And once he had taken
control of that AI, he could erase all memory of our presence.

So, we waited. And waited.

Reed and I took turns napping in between duty shifts.
The Panther would not be doing much flying on this mission, so I had not seen
any need to risk the lives or more than two people. Reed was easy to get along
with, we played cards or Scrabble to pass the time, or we both gave each other
space and read books. The Panther was small on the outside compared even to a
Dragon-A dropship, but the cabin was about the same size as our smaller
Kristang model, and we had enough room not to get on each other’s nerves. Reed
was a much better companion than Mister Nukey had been, plus she was less
likely to accidentally explode.

We hung out in empty space, Skippy constantly
alert for incoming ships or anything that might make the station detect us.
Only once did we need to move the ship, because a small cloud of dust was
drifting through the area and the station would get suspicious if tiny dust
particles bounced off our shields. Other than that one bit of excitement, it
was pretty dull.

Until two Maxolhx starships jumped in without
warning.

I was on duty in the pilot seat, working on a
crossword puzzle that I swear Skippy had rigged to make it impossible for me to
complete, when he sounded a soft bell-like chime. “Joe, we have company.”

Before I woke Reed from sleep, I checked the
display. The two ships were less than five thousand kilometers from the station,
and they had their own sensor fields turned off to avoid interfering with the
station. “Reed,” I shook her shoulder gently and she was instantly awake.

“What?” She asked, blinking sleep away from her
eyes.

Pointing to the display, I let her take in the
situation. “Two ships,” I explained. “Skippy, damn, one of those ships is big.
It’s a 
monster
,” I whispered.

“That is a bit of 
good
 luck, Joe. That big ship is a support ship, sort of a mobile
spacedock for repairing battle-damaged ships that can’t make it back to a
planetary base, or are urgently needed. We are in little danger from that
thing. The other ship is a destroyer assigned to escort the spacedock. Now be
quiet, knucklehead, I am aligning our pixies to match the destroyer’s
identification code.”

It was easy to be quiet since I was pressing my
lips together so they wouldn’t tremble from fear. Being stupid as I am, I
zoomed in the image to see those imposing ships like they were right on top of
us. That was a bad idea, and I caught a disapproving look from Reed. Switching
to the tactical display helped. If the Maxolhx detected us, we did not need to
explode one of the nukes we had brought from Earth, instead we could overload
the Panther’s own reactor. That thought was really not very comforting.

The two ships hung near the relay station for only
sixteen minutes, then they jumped away as abruptly as they had arrived. “We’re
clear, Joe,” Skippy reported. “Sending data to the 
Dutchman
. Our pixies are aligned and ready.”

Unclenching my jaw so could speak, I lifted my
hands away from the pilot console and nodded toward Reed to show the spacecraft
was hers. “Outstanding. Reed, take us to the rendezvous point.”

 

It took thirty seven hours to rendezvous with the 
Flying Dutchman
, flying very gently not
only to avoid strain on the vital components of the Panther, but mostly to
avoid hard maneuvers that might be detected by the relay station. After the
Panther was aboard, the ship accelerated for another six hours, then jumped
away. Our outbound jump was from a distance sufficiently far from the station
that the controlling AI likely would not find anything alarming or suspicious
about our mystery ship. We then waited another five hours, time during which
the ship decelerated to match course and speed with the relay station. Part of
the reason for the delay was that Skippy knew, from listening to the data
exchanged between the spacedock ship and the relay station, that another ship
was scheduled to stop at the relay station and we wanted to give that ship
plenty of time to get clear of the area.

We jumped in near the station again, this time
much closer at less than six thousand kilometers. Skippy adjusted our stealth
field and jump drive signature to make us look like the destroyer that had been
there recently. The station immediately pinged us and demanded identification.
Despite Skippy’s well-demonstrated awesomeness, I had my fingers crossed as he
sent back the destroyer’s ID code with our copied pixies.

The station acknowledged our ID and expressed mild
surprise that the destroyer had come back so soon. For us, Skippy replied that
another ship had been assigned to escort the mobile spacedock, and we had come
back to the station to install a critical upgrade. He included the proper
authorization codes, also stolen from the real destroyer, and the station sort
of shrugged if AIs are capable of shrugging. This was good timing, the station
said, as no ships were scheduled to arrive within the next eighty four hours. A
docking bay was ready for us. Skippy told me the AI sounded lonely.

 

With a finger hovering over the button to send our
new quality pre-owed Maxolhx dropship toward the relay station, I had to first
calm my fears as the Panther approached the relay station, under the control of
the station’s AI. We were not really under the station’s control, but Skippy
let that AI think it was in control because that was standard procedure. “Skippy,
you are 
certain
 the station AI will
not activate defenses when it sees 
us

get out of the dropship, wearing Kristang armor?”

“I am certain that will not be a problem, for two
reasons. First, the Maxolhx are supremely, like, stupidly confident in the
security of their pixie system. Once we authenticate ourselves, we will be
trusted without question. Considering what the Maxolhx 
think
 they know about the physical laws of the universe, they are
correct in being confident their security is unbreakable. Hee hee, they did not
count on me spoiling the party. Second, the station AI will not see you wearing
Kristang armor, you dumdum, because I will be spoofing the sensors in the
docking bay. While I will not yet have complete control of the AI until you
jack me in, I will be able to control the data that AI sees. I already told you
all this, were you not listening?”

“I was listening. I am making sure nothing
changed, or that you didn’t forget something.”

“Forget? 
Me
?”
He was insulted. “Unlike you meatsacks, my memory is-”

“Your memory is not the problem. I wanted to know if
you absentmindedly forgot to consider something.”

“Oh, Hmm, I guess that is fair, let me review the
facts again. Nope, no, can’t think of anything I did not consider.”

“Great,” I allowed a bit of the tension in my
shoulders to melt away.

“Of course, I also did not consider that
fighter-dropships would be conducting flight maneuvers at the moonbase, or that
the crawler would be taking a different route, or that the garage section of
the base would not have a connection to the base AI, or-”

“Damn it, Skippy.”

“I’m just sayin’, maybe I am not the best person
to ask about whether I have all bases covered, you know?”

“Crap. Well,” I shot a guilty look at Reed in the
pilot seat. “It’s too late now to change the plan.”

“Yessiree Bob it is,” Skippy babbled nervously.
“Okey-dokey, we are committed now, on track for the docking bay outer marker”
he was talking way too much, a sign of his internal tension. “Hey, speaking of being
on 
tracks
, this reminds me of a song.

All abooooooard! Hahahahahaha. Ay ay ay
ay
-”

“Skippy!” I shouted over him while he continued to
sing. “Damn it, Ozzy is not really the best choice when we are trying to- Are
you even listening to me?”

“
I’m going
off the rails on a crazy traaaain! I’m going off
-”

“SKIPPY!”

“Ok, Ok, Jeez Louise, I try to inject a little
culture into-”

“We are inside the docking bay, you little
shithead. Do your thing with the sensors.”

“What thing? Oh yeah, got it.”

While he worked, he must have been singing to
himself because I heard snippets of Ozzy like ‘
I’ve listened to preachers I’ve listened to fools, I’ve listened to
drop-outs who make their own rules
’ and I kept my mouth shut because me
talking would be even more distracting to him. Plus, for some reason I couldn’t
understand, his Ozzy was much better than when he sang anything else, so I was
kind of getting into it.

“Ok, Joe, sensors are under my control. Damn, this
AI is a Chatty Cathy, it must be really bored and lonely. You need to jack me
in so I can make it shut the hell up.”

 

It was easy. After all my anxiety, and the effort
we had gone through to get a proper Maxolhx dropship and a set of pixies, the
actual work inside the station was easy. I was wearing a flightsuit because
Skippy was concerned the weight of powered-armor boots clomping across the deck
of the docking bay might make the station AI suspicious when its cameras were
showing an unarmored Maxolhx casually walking toward the inner door. To match
what the cameras were showing, I tried to walk casually, using long strides to
mimic the gait of a Maxolhx that was taller than me. Then, when I reached the
airlock, I plugged a little gizmo into a dataport near the floor, and within
two seconds, Skippy flashed a little green light in the upper right corner of
my helmet display.

“I’m in, Joe. Damn, the next time I have to hack
into something, can we choose a species that does not have good wireless
security? Needing to physically jack me into a data port is a pain in the 
ass
.”

“I am not a big fan of it either. You never have
trouble hacking into the Thuranin, or into computer systems on Earth.”

“That is because you monkeys have zero data
security, Joe. And the pinhead Thuranin do not realize how vulnerable they are
to their systems being infiltrated by someone who gains access through their
cybernetic implants. Hee hee, those little green idiots think they only have to
be worried about someone hacking into 
them

through their ship AIs, not the other direction. Buncha morons. Aaaand, that’s
it. We’re good, Joe, I got the flightplan data. Erasing our tracks now. We
should get out of here pronto, in case an unscheduled ship shows up to spoil
the party.”

“Don’t keep me in suspense, Skippy,” I had a catch
in my throat. “Are we too late?” My greatest fear was the target ships had
already transited through the wormhole in Ruhar territory, and were now jumping
through dark interstellar space toward Earth. If that were the case, we had
zero chance of intercepting them somewhere in that vast expanse of space, and
our renegade mission was all for nothing.

“Nope, dude, we’re good. Those ships have not left
their home base yet. I 
told
 you, the
Maxolhx wanted to examine other wormholes that have exhibited odd behavior,
before they launch for Earth. The last ship has returned from collecting data,
and there was a conference to analyze the results.”

I unplugged from the data port and walked casually
back toward the Panther. “What is taking them so long to launch?”

“Because during the conference, the Maxolhx sent
their results to the Rindhalu, to get the spiders’ thoughts on what might be
causing the odd wormhole behavior. The spiders just replied two weeks ago,
which is super fast for them, they must be worried. Anyway, what you want to
hear is the target ships will not launch for twenty seven days.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY FIVE

 

Coming back from the galley, where I had gotten a
cup of coffee more out of habit than because I wanted one, I set the mug on my
office desk, then moved it aside because it annoyed Skippy when there was
clutter on the desk where his avatar materialized. “Hey, Skippy.”

“Hey, Joe,” his familiar admiral’s form popped
into life. He made minor changes to the avatar regularly, it looked like the
blue of his coat was a shade darker and the gold braid on his hat a little
shinier. He never mentioned the changes, and if he was hoping for me to comment
and praise him, he would be waiting a very long time. “What’s up?”

“We got the flightplan data-”

“Yes we do. Is this conversation going to be a way
for you to waste time because still you have no way to kill the target ships?”

“No, because even if we did have a really good,
practical plan to attack those ships, we first need to talk about the sequence
of events. I have some ideas and want to bounce them off you.”

“Sequence of events? Like, you say something
stupid and 
then
 I laugh at you? That
is the logical sequence based on the laws of causality. But if you want to save
time, I can mock you in advance, since we all know you will say something
stupid eventually.”

“No, uh, the system we’ve been using works great,”
I groaned with an internal eyeroll. “Besides, how could you tailor your
insults, if you don’t know which stupid thing I will say?”

“Hmm, that is a good point. I have a list of
pre-made insults ready, but it is so much more rewarding when I make up
something snappy on the spot. Ok, then, what did you mean by ‘sequence of
events’?”

“I meant, we now know the schedule for the target
ships, so we have a list of things we need to do, like usual. But this time I don’t
think we have to do them one, two, three. We could do item two first, then
three, then one.”

“I’m not following you, Joe.”

“Ok,” I opened my laptop screen and read the list
I had created. “We need to destroy those two ships-”

“Well, first, you need to figure out 
how
 to do that impossible task, Joe.”

“Yeah, I know that. For now, assume we figure out
a brilliant plan. So we-”

“Assume? Oh, sure, no problem. Let’s also 
assume
 that pigs can fly,” he laughed.

“I’m trying to be serious here, asshole.”

“All right,” he sighed. “I will try to take this
ridiculous conversation seriously. Fine, I will assume this beat-up piece of
crap ship can take on and destroy two Maxolhx warships. I assume however we do
that will also miraculously include a plan for this ship to survive the battle
and-”

“No,” I shook my head emphatically. “That is
something we are 
not
 assuming, that’s
kind of the point.”

“Ok, hmm. Now I am intrigued, and you have my
attention. Continue, please.”

“We can’t assume the 
Dutchman
 will survive that battle, so I think we may have to get 
everything
 else done before we hit those
ships. You understand what I’m saying now?”

“Ah, yes, and you are right, we might need to act
out of sequence. This is a rare example of you thinking ahead and considering
consequences. How did 
that
 happen?”

“Very funny, jackass. To make sure we understand
each other, here is my list. We need to destroy those ships. We need to plant a
cover story in a Maxolhx relay station, and that has to be a relay station
along the route the target ships would have plausibly taken on their way home.
My question is, could we plant the cover story in a relay station 
before
 we attack those ships? That way,
if the 
Flying Dutchman
 does not
survive the battle, the cover story will already be waiting to be released to
the Maxolhx.”

 
“Again,
that is good thinking. We cannot assume the 
Dutchman

will be able to fly to a relay station after the battle. And yes, I could plant
the cover story in a relay station before we fly off on a foolish quest to
tangle with two warships that could crush the pathetic 
Dutchman
 like swatting a fly. We 
should
 plant the cover story first, and I can easily delay release
of the fake report. There are two problems with that plan, Joe.”

“Uh, like what?”

“First, you have not yet told me what the cover
story is going to be. Whatever story you dream up, it has to be pretty
incredible to explain the disappearance of two advanced warships, 
and
 persuade the Maxolhx that they do
not need to launch a full-scale investigation including sending a large task
force to Earth.”

“Thank you so much for reminding me that-”

“Second, 
second
,
dumdum, your cover story might determine which particular relay station those
ships supposedly contacted on their return journey. So, you need to dream up
this cover story before we even set course for the relay station.”

“How do you figure that?”

“If the cover story says everything was fine with
the expedition until the target ships were almost home,” he explained
patiently, “then we need to plant the cover story in the relay station that is
on the expedition’s schedule. Except 
that

station has a Maxolhx crew, and we need to use an 
automated
 relay station. So, your cover story needs to include some
mysterious reason why the ghost ships survived the return trip, but could not
reach the relay station on the schedule and had to contact a different station,
an automated one.”

“Shit. You’re right, I hadn’t thought of that.
Before you say it, I know that sometimes I am an idiot.”

“Agreed.”

“Good.”

“Except for the ‘sometimes’ part. Seriously, how
are you going to explain how those two ships survived the long trip all the way
to Earth and back, but then were lost in Maxolhx territory just before they
return to base?”

“I don’t 
know

yet, Skippy. Thank you, it is 
super

helpful to have you reminding me of all the impossible crap I need to do.”

“Oh goodie. Hey, if I’m being helpful to you, that
means I get partial credit for whatever crazy idea you dream up, right?”

How could an awesomely smart AI be so freakin’
clueless, I asked myself? “Yeah, sure, whatever, I couldn’t do it without you,”
that time I could not stop my eyes from rolling.

“Hmmf,” he sniffed. “This whole conversation was a
waste of my precious time. You can’t decide which action to do first, until you
have a plan for what you’re going to do, and how to do it. Really, you need a
plan to destroy those ships, 
and
 a
good cover story, 
and
 you need to
select a relay station, before you can do anything.”

“Skippy, you are an endless source of support and
comfort.”

“I am? Crap, I was going for tough love, Joe.
Clearly, I need to be more-”

“You’re doing just fine the way you are. Don’t
mess with what works, Skippy.”

“If you say so, Joe.”

“Talking with you has been helpful, I am going to
plan for us to plant the cover story before we hit those ships.”

“Uh, sure,” he chuckled. “I think that’s like you
trying to decide between riding a flying pig or a unicorn, but go ahead, have
fun. Well, you have a lot of work to do, and chatting with me is only taking up
your time, so get to work. Wait!” He held up a finger, a giant foam finger that
suddenly sprouted from his holographic hand. “The target ships have not even
launched yet, so we have plenty of time.”

“Yeah, I know. Several people have asked me if we
should use the time to go back to Earth. My answer has been ‘Hell NO’.”

“I know, I heard those conversations. Colonel
Smythe did make a good argument in favor of returning to Earth, to bring aboard
additional personnel.”

“No, he said that would be the 
only
 reason to go all the way back to
Earth, and he also told me that is a bad idea. We agreed a return would give
UNEF an opportunity to screw with us. Plus,” I glanced outside my office door
to make sure no one was lingering in the passageway. “Some of the crew may get
homesick, have second thoughts, and want to jump ship. Being near home may be
too tempting. Is there a reason that you want to go back? You hate the mudball
we call home.”

“I do not 
hate

Earth, Joe. I mentioned we have plenty of time because the ship needs downtime
for maintenance. Heavy maintenance, not the light running repairs I have been
conducting while we fly. Really, we should take the ship completely apart, the
main reactor needs work that requires it to be detached and far away from the
forward section, to protect the crew section from hard radiation.”

“That is not happening.”

“It needs to happen, dumdum.”

“How about after this mission?”

“If the 
Dutchman

survives a battle with two Maxolhx ships, it will need serious work. But, Ok,
we can compromise. I need the ship to be offline for eighteen to twenty days,
just to make repairs so it doesn’t fall apart, and I assume you want the ship
to be in the best possible condition before we attack the Maxolhx?” He did not
need me to reply. “The ship will have auxiliary power, so the crew can remain
aboard, we do not need to evacuate to a habitable planet this time.”

That sounded horribly risky to me. Taking the
ship’s main power offline, in enemy territory, would leave us exposed and
vulnerable. Without main power, we could not run the stealth field for more
than a couple hours. The point-defense system and energy shields would also be
unavailable. “Twenty days?”

“Possibly as few as eighteen days, don’t be so
pessimistic. Listen, dumdum, when we were at the Roach Motel, you were in a
panic to pop smoke and get out of there ASAP, so I slapped the junkyard parts
together quick and dirty with duct tape and a prayer. Some of those quickie
patches are wearing out, I need to fix them before something important goes
‘Kablooie’, understood?”

“Ok, Ok. I assume you have selected a place where
we can safely take the ship offline?”

“Yes, it is highlighted on the chart,” he pointed to
my laptop. “Another dull and totally uninteresting red dwarf star system. This
particular system is centered on a low-mass M8V-class star, with one gas giant
of approximately Neptune size in a distant orbit, and three small rocky inner
planets. No planets are in the narrow Goldilocks zone, therefore there is no
reason for anyone to ever visit there. According to charts I stole from the
Maxolhx, the only survey of the system was conducted by a Rindhalu ship eight
hundred thousand years ago, and that ship only stayed long enough to collect
sensor data. If you were looking for the middle of nowhere, this star system is
close.”

“Ok,” I was only half paying attention to his
spiel, because I was studying the chart on my laptop. From what I could
understand, that star system was just about the perfect place to hide out for a
while. It was not real close to any Elder wormholes, plus it was within four
lightyears of the flightpath the target ships were scheduled to take. Once
repairs to the ship were complete, we could move out to intercept the Maxolhx
quickly.

After, you know, we had a plan for how to destroy
those ships. And a cover story. And after we planted that cover story in a
relay station, an 
automated
 relay
station. I hate details.

“Ok, Skippy, that makes sense,” I agreed. Working
on the ship was better than sitting around with nothing to do while we waited
for the target ships to launch. “I’ll tell Simms to set course for this place.
Before your magical little elfbots take the ship apart, I need to see a list of
all the work you’re planning to do, got it?”

 

We took the ship to Nowheresville, the name we
chose for that star system, and flew around there for two days before I was
satisfied the system was totally uninhabited and as uninteresting as Skippy
promised. The ship was parked in orbit around a small planet just beyond the
Goldilocks zone, where the crew would be safe from solar flares, and where our
powered-down ship could be inconspicuous among the dozens of small moons.
Skippy’s elfbots went to work immediately, and I gave him permission to
remotely pilot a small Dragon-A dropship because he wanted to send it to
another planet to look for useful minerals or something like that. A busy
Skippy is a happy Skippy, and a busy Skippy also does not have as much time to
sing and build sexbots and do other stuff that made my life more difficult.

Everything was going great, by which I mean the
crew enjoyed downtime in between training sessions. I had time to think, which
was not going well, I still had zero freakin’ idea how to successfully attack
the target ships, or what to use as a cover story. The important thing was the
repairs were going well, except that the repairs didn’t mean squat unless we
had a plan for what to do after the ship was put back together.

My life sucks.

Anyway, twelve days into what Skippy estimated
would be a fourteen-day repair cycle, Nagatha contacted me and made my day
extra super-duper wonderful. “Good morning, Joseph,” she said in the soothing
voice a mother uses when she announced fresh-baked cookies are coming out of
the oven.

My mother makes excellent chocolate-chip cookies.
They have crispy edges where the sugar caramelizes or something. Man, I miss my
Mom. I feel bad that I am away for so long, and she doesn’t know where I am or
what’s happening to me, and-

Ok, back to the subject.

“Good morning to you, Nagatha. Are you learning a
lot about how to make repairs?”

“Oh, yes. It is 
quite
 complicated and Skippy is showing me every detail, explaining

everything
 to me, in case I need to
maintain the ship by myself.”

That surprised me and pleased me. “That’s great.
I’m glad he is being cooperative.”

“A bit 
too

cooperative, which is what aroused my suspicions.”

Just like that, she burst my little bubble of
happiness. “Oh, shy-” Despite knowing Nagatha was an advanced alien AI, she
made me feel like I was talking with an aunt who was gracious and wore pearls
and did not appreciate foul language. “Shoot. Dang it! What is he up to now?”

“Right now, he is intensely focused on the
delicate task of aligning the deuterium injectors, so I am able to mask our
conversation from him. It is my belief that he lied to you about why he chose
this star system. The reason he borrowed a dropship is not to search for
valuable minerals, it is to search for an Elder site.”

“An 
Elder

site? Here?”

“Correct. This star system is not on the original
list of places where he suspected there are Elder sites unknown to current
species, but he has been refining his list based on data recently acquired from
the Maxolhx, and he discovered this system is a prime candidate. Joseph, he has
identified a partially-intact Elder site, on a moon orbiting the innermost
planet.”

“How is that possible? We should have detected a
site when we spent two days flying around to survey this place!”

“I now believe the ship’s sensors did pick up
inconclusive signs of an Elder facility, but Skippy hid that data from you and
me. He is frightfully smart, you know.”

Clenching my fists didn’t help, nor did counting
to five. “How long will he be busy with the injectors?”

“The most delicate part of the task will be
complete in thirty-seven minutes. With Skippy’s vast capacity, he can align the
injectors while speaking with you, however I suspect your conversation will be
loud and angry and he might get distracted.”

“Ok, Ok, I’ll wait. I’m going to the galley to get
coffee, ping me when that little shithead is available.” I was so angry, I
forgot about not using foul language with Nagatha.

 

The galley did not have any fresh coffee, and the
dregs in the pot had baked to a thick tar that could have been used to glue
armor plating to the hull, if we had any armor plating. There was a pan with
three slices of coffee cake from three days ago, that could have been used as
armor plating. I made a fresh pot of coffee and scraped the hardened coffee
cake out of the pan while waiting for the coffee to brew. One problem with
having such a small crew is we could not assign people to the galley one day
per week. Instead, teams of three people took turns preparing dinner, while
breakfast and lunch were usually fend-for-yourself meals. Three days ago, I had
gotten up early to make two pans of coffee cake as a treat for the crew and
most of it disappeared quickly, then the last pan got shoved into a corner and
I forgot about it. Our meals were pretty bland also, Simms had assured the ship
had basic supplies aboard but we did not have a wide variety of food, we were
very grateful for the hydroponics gardens although I was getting tired of
eating salads for dinner. Salads with marinated slices of beef, or buffalo
chicken, or just spicy croutons and pan-roasted nuts. Dinners were nutritious
and healthy and I could not wait to get back to Earth. The next night was my
turn in the galley and I was going to make pizza, damn it.

Nagatha pinged me that Skippy was available just
as I got back to my office and took a sip of coffee, a rare example of good
timing by me. “Hey, Skippy,” I tried to keep the irritation I felt out of my
voice. It didn’t work.

“Hey Joe. What are you pissed off about now?”

“Not what. 
Who
.”

“Hmm,” his avatar leaned forward, making a
sniffing sound. “That is fresh coffee, so I am guessing you are peeved at whoever
took the last cup without making a fresh pot.”

“Nope. I am pissed at 
you
, for lying to me. You wanted us to come to this system not
because it is a safe place for the ship to be down for maintenance, but because
there is an Elder site here?”

“Crap. Did Nagatha tell you? How did 
she
 find out?”

“Never mind that. You lied to me.”

“That does not change the fact that nobody in the
galaxy knows about the Elder site here, dumdum. So, no harm done. We had to go
somewhere to fix the ship, this system is as safe as any.”

“Nobody else knows that you are aware of, 
you
 dumdum. This star system has
something every species in this galaxy would kill to get. Gosh, what are the
odds that one of them found that site by luck, or because they are smarter than
your arrogant ass can admit?”

“If that Elder site is not in the Maxolhx
database, then 
nobody
 knows about it,
you knucklehead.”

“
Really
?”
I put my entire lifetime supply of disdain into that word. “So, you think there
is no way a species that found a treasure trove of Elder goodies would keep it
a secret?”

“Well, shit,” he sighed. “When you say it like 
that
, it just makes me look ridiculous.”

“Ya think?”

“You are not helping my self-esteem, Joe.”

“I’m not trying to help! Here’s what I would like
to do to your self-esteem, you 
lying

little shithead. First I will kick it in front of a bus, and after your
self-esteem has been squashed flat and ground into the scuzzy grime on the
road, I will unzip my pants and-”

 
“All right,
all right, I get the idea. Hey, I was going to tell you about it soon anyway.”

Somehow, despite how 
incredibly
 trustworthy he had been, I did not believe him. “You
were? Because you knew Nagatha was onto your lies?”

“No,” he pouted. “Because I need your help.”

“Hmm. You realize that needing help is not a good
motive for telling the truth?”

“It’s 
not
?
I mean, no, it’s not, of course not. Um, why is that?”

“You are supposed to tell the truth, because
friends don’t lie to each other.”

“What? Oh, come on,” he snorted. “Lying is the 
basis
 for many friendships. Lies like,
you know; she wasn’t good enough for you anyway, that company didn’t appreciate
your talents, that dress doesn’t make you look fat. If your friends won’t lie
to make you feel better, who will?”

“Those are not,” I started to retort. But, damn
it, he was partly right about that. “That’s not the point.”

The smug tone of his voice told me he figured he
had won that argument. “Anywho, I do need your help. Joe, I think there are
Elder goodies on that moon, and I need monkeys, I mean,
 people
, to go down there.”

The tempting thought of acquiring Elder technology
made me bite back the reply I had planned. “What kind of goodies?”

“Crunchy chocolate on the outside, with a
delicious caramel center?”

“Be serious, if you want my help.”

“I am being serious. I don’t know exactly what is
down there, but the site is partially intact. It was a 
big
 site, and most of it is gone, but there are outlying structures
that were only damaged. Because the structures are Elder tech, I can’t scan
inside them with the Dragon’s crappy sensors. My bots are all busy working on
the 
Dutchman
, and I don’t want to risk
damaging one of them, because they can’t be replaced.”

“Uh huh. But you are totally Ok with us monkeys
risking our lives?”

“Um, yes? Or no. Pretend I said whatever thing
will get me in the least trouble. Look, we both know you can’t pass up an
opportunity to ransack an Elder site, so how about we imagine we had an
informed, rational adult conversation, and then you do what I asked, Ok?”

“Skippy, why is arguing with you a complete waste
of time?”

“Joe, I do not mind participating in arguments, or
debates or whatever you want to call it. All I ask is to get whatever I want,
after a reasonable amount of discussion.”

“Oh boy.”

 

 

The beer can got his way, again. After a very
careful scan of the entire star system, during which Nagatha reviewed every
piece of data to make sure Skippy wasn’t holding out on us, I was satisfied he
was right about one very important thing; there was no current alien presence
in the system, and no one had been there for a very long time. Because Smythe
wanted to use the Elder site for training, and because the new people were
dying to see what an Elder structure looked like, and because there was no way
we could pass up an opportunity to collect Elder technology, I approved a
mission to that moon. 
After
 Skippy
put the 
Dutchman
 back together. That
moon was a long way away, we only had one big Condor dropship left, and it
would take a long time to fly there through normal space. The unmanned Dragon
that Skippy flew remotely had been able to use single-use boosters to get
there, and burned most of its fuel in a high-G maneuver to slow down and swing
into orbit. The math I did on my laptop, and yes I am capable of plotting math
for normal-space navigation, told me it would actually be faster to wait for
the 
Dutchman
 to be back online, and
jump across the star system, than to fly there in a dropship. Skippy did not
like that, he also did not disagree with my math, which astonished us both.

Since the ship needed to perform a short-range
test jump anyway, we jumped near the target moon, and had the ship on a
hair-trigger to jump away at the first sign of trouble. There were no signs of
trouble, so four hours later, we dropped down to the surface in a pair of
Falcons and a Dragon. There were three primary sites to explore and after the
near-disaster on our second mission, when an away team exploring an Elder site
got trapped there by a Kristang battlegroup jumping in unexpectedly, I was
determined that each team be no more than five minutes away from a dropship
that was ready to fly. The dropships had their main cabins depressurized and
the back ramps open, so each three-person away team could run up the ramps side
by side. We were taking enough chances on this mission, I was not allowing any
unnecessary risk.

There is not much to tell about the Elder site,
the main complex had been scooped out and thrown into another dimension, there
was a shallow crater in the center of the site. Somebody had decided that big
crater had not done the job, so a bombardment from orbit followed, blowing
chunks out of the central crater and digging so deep that molten lava had
partly filled in the crater’s bottom. Structures on the periphery of the main
crater had also been hit, but that bombardment was oddly hit-or-miss, if you
pardon the pun. Some structures had been obliterated, others appeared to have
only collateral damage from nearby explosions, like they had not been targeted
at all. Those structures were where we concentrated our search.

“Skippy,” I whispered, while my helmet lights
illuminated a hallway that had not been walked on for millions of years, yet
was so clean that I felt guilty about the dust I tracked in on my boots. “This
place is empty, is that why whoever destroyed the main base didn’t bother to
hit this area?”

“No, Joe,” he answered quickly, excitedly. “Well,
maybe. But I found another possible explanation. With the 
Dutchman
’s sensors, I have been scanning the surface, both of this
moon and the planet below. There is debris from not one, but 
two
 Elder starships. Do not get your
hopes up, mine have already been crushed. The destruction of those ships was
complete, the largest piece I have found is smaller than a grain of sand.”

That was disappointing. “So, how do you know there
were two ships, if there is nothing left of them?”

“Not nothing, there is still plenty of mass for me
to analyze. The chemical signatures of the hulls are unique, like a
fingerprint. Hull plating is exposed to radiation, micro-meteor impacts, even
flying through the InterStellar Medium erodes and affects the hull material.”

“The ISM, yeah, stray hydrogen atoms or whatever,”
I remembered him being fascinated by the ratio of hydrogen to helium or some
nerdy thing like that.

“Correct,” he was pleased I remembered the subject
at all. “As ship hulls are exposed to different space environments throughout
their lives, they are altered in a unique way. In this case, I can tell one
ship spent significant time near a supergiant star, while the other ship
apparently was in storage for an extended period, because its plating is older
but shows few effects of exposure to stellar radiation.”

“Um, don’t want to complicate things, but couldn’t
that be 
one
 ship, that had damaged
plating replaced with plating that sat on a shelf for a long time?”

“No, dumdum,” he was peeved. “Without giving you a
full explanation which would require a brain transplant for you to have any
hope of understanding, a ship’s hull plating is also affected by the ship
itself. Radiation from the reactors, plasma leaking from conduits, gasses
deposited from dropship thrusters, all are unique. 
Plus
, in this case I can tell one of the ships was in a firefight
before, because the hull plating shows effects of scarring from high-energy
weapons. That scarring is on the older plating, so unless some Elder shipyard
cut corners by reusing plating from a damaged ship, I feel pretty safe stating
there were two ships destroyed here. Do you really want to continue questioning
my analysis?”

“No, please,” I would have face-palmed myself for
being stupid, if I wasn’t wearing a helmet.

“You sure? I can go on with the nerdy stuff all
day if you like.”

“I would 
not

like. Please, I apologize for daring to question the Great and Powerful Skippy.
Ok, so why does it matter that a pair of ships crashed here? We’ve seen
wreckage of Elder ships before.”

“It matters because, 
ugh
. Why are you so dense? I was hoping you would have guessed by
now. My fault for expecting you to use logic. Joe, those two Elder ships were
fighting each other. Uh!” He shushed me before I could ask another stupid
question. “I know that because the signatures of the weapons involved. Not only
do I know the weapons were Elder technology, I know 
two
 sets of weapons were used. Therefore, two ships of equivalent
technology were involved.”

“Signatures? Like, the frequency of the laser
cannons?”

“Please, Joe, the Elders did not use anything
crude like laser beams,” he scoffed. “
These

weapons disrupted matter at a quantum level, or created rifts in spacetime.”

“I thought you said the Elders did not have
weapons. They were peaceful and had no enemies.”

“Apparently I was wrong about that, 
duh
. Try to keep up, Joe.”

If he saw any irony in admitting he was wrong
while slapping 
me
 with a ‘duh’, he
didn’t show it. Man, being clueless must be so blissful. “I’m sorry, Skippy.”

“It’s Ok, I should know not to expect you to
understand complicated-”

“I 
meant
,
I am sorry for you.” Damn it, why was I trying to comfort him, when he was so
determined to be an asshole?

“Huh? Sorry for 
me
? About what?”

“Because,” I gritted my teeth, feeling my patience
running out. “What you thought about the Elders was wrong, and now you are even
further from understanding who you are and where you came from.”

“Oh.” He went quiet, making me irritated that he
might be thinking up a fresh insult to slap me with. “Thank you, Joe,” he
finally said without a trace of snarkiness. “You are the only person who truly
understands what that means to me. I feel so alone, Joe. And lost. You, and
some of the other monkeys, and Nagatha, try to help, but only you really get
it.”

We were having a genuine 
moment
. “You are never alone with us, Skippy.”

Aaaaand, he could not help being an asshole,
because he is an asshole. “Sure,” he muttered, “if I want to consort with
ignorant monkeys. Damn, my life is 
pathetic
.”

“I am also sorry that we monkeys are so filthy and
ignorant,” I rolled my eyes, making my faceplate display go haywire because it
thought I was trying to eyeclick a command.

“It is not your fault, Joe. I blame the billions
of your ancestors who-” 

“Could we get back to the subject, please? It’s
kind of important, you know? Two Elder ships were 
fighting
 each other here? You think that is why some structures
here survived; the ship that was bombarding this moon to clean up couldn’t
finish the job, because it was attacked by a second ship? And those ships
destroyed each other?”

“That is a good guess, Joe, good as my own guess.
Yes, that is what I think happened. That is also why I am very, well, somewhat
hopeful, that we might find intact Elder artifacts here. As you said, the
clean-up job here was not finished.”

“Ayuh. It also means what was going on was 
not
 the Elders tidying up their stuff,
so no one could screw with it after they ascended to Shangri-La or wherever.
The bombardment of this base was an 
attack
,
a hostile action. I’m going to tell Smythe to keep an extra-sharp eye for
trouble, and not take any risks.”

“Come on, Joe,” the snarkiness was back. “This
place is 
dead
. What trouble do you
expect?”

“Gingerbread was dead too. You, uh, remember that
creepy ancient maintenance bot in the tunnel under Gingerbread? It could have
trapped and killed Smythe’s team, if Adams and I hadn’t found a way around it
to rescue them.”

“Oh,” in an instant, he went from snarky to
chastened. “I do remember that. Good point, Joe. Please warn the team to be
very careful.” 

“Don’t worry about us monkeys, Skippy, we know
enough to climb a tree when we see a lion. I am concerned about you.”

“Me? Why?”

“Because you just learned something surprising,
something very bad, about the Elders. That kind of shock can affect anyone,
even you. Can you promise me you will do your best not to think about Elder
ships fighting each other, until we are done searching this moon?”

“Again, you do not need to worry about me, I am
not a meatsack. Unlike you filthy monkeys, I have complete control over my
emotional responses.”

“Uh, yeah,” I tried to mask the sarcasm. “that’s
what I was thinking. We are counting on you, Skippy, do not get distracted and
let us down.”

“Fine, Mister Busybody, have it your way. I just
created a submind to ponder the implications of Elder ships fighting each
other, and locked that submind off from my higher-order consciousness. That
submind will not contact me until after all you monkeys are safely aboard the 
Dutchman
. Will that make you happy?”

“It will make me happier, thanks.”

 

We were extra, super-duper careful, and it didn’t
matter. Most of the structures were either empty, or contained equipment that
was so decayed by age and exposure, Skippy had to guess the function of some of
the gear. The good news is, none of us got killed or even injured unless you
count Katie Frey, who had the bad luck of falling through a weak floor. She
landed on her feet gracefully though, assisted by her suit. It would be great
to say she found a treasure-trove of Elder tech under the floor, but she didn’t
find anything useful down there.

We searched all the structures, and we found a
grand total of nothing useful. That was maddening, that site was out best
opportunity to obtain tech we could use against species like the Maxolhx, and
it was freakin’ empty.

The gooder- Gooder? No, better. The
better-than-good good news was that Frey’s unlucky fall had made Skippy scan
under the structures. No, there were no hidden chambers of tunnels under the structures-
Ok, there were a few chambers for equipment and we did locate one tunnel, but
it only contained cabling and a sort of tram that was empty and decayed. To
analyze the moon under the surface, Skippy had to closely examine the soil and
rocks, and create a model so he could compare what should be there to what the
scans were showing him.

That is how we hit the jackpot.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY SIX

 

“Careful, 
careful
,”
I urged uselessly. If the work crew had been excavating dinosaur bones with
fine toothbrushes, they could not have been going any slower.

Up in northern Maine, we have three seasons;
Winter, Mud and Construction. After the ground thaws out, and the frost heaves
crack the roads and then melting snow and spring rains undermine the roads and
wash out the ditches and culverts, the beginning of May starts the cycle of
Construction season. Until the middle, or if we get lucky the end of October,
crews are out repairing existing roads, building new roads, fixing or replacing
bridges. The first sign you are approaching a construction zone is the dreaded
‘Construction Ahead’ sign or its spawn-of-evil cousin ‘One Lane Road Ahead’.
The first sign causes anxiety because you never know how far ahead the
construction zone is, and sometimes you drive slowly until you come to an area
where the guardrails on both sides are lined with orange cones or Jersey
barriers, and the road is all torn up and muddy with potholes and there is a
lonely backhoe awkwardly parked off to the side, sometimes with a once-colorful
but now faded beach umbrella on top to shade the operator from the intense
tropical sunshine of the North Woods, but there are no humans in sight. For
days or weeks, you slow down approaching that spot but you never see anyone
actually, you know, constructing anything. Then one day, the backhoe and orange
cones and Jersey barriers are gone but the road is still muddy with potholes
bigger than ever, and you figure someone in the High Priest Temple of
Construction heard a rumor of a snow flurry somewhere in North American and
said ‘Screw it, we will wait until next year’.

Worse is the dreaded One-Lane-Road-Ahead sign,
because you can be fairly sure that sign means activity ahead that, while it
might not accomplish anything useful, will block traffic. You creep up in a
line of bumper-to-bumper cars, to where some person in a yellow vest is playing
a game on their phone with one hand, while their other arm is lazily wrapped
around a STOP sign. Behind that person is a backhoe and a couple guys leaning
on shovels, eating donuts. You wait in line while traffic lurches slowly in the
opposite direction, including some out-of-state asshole towing a boat behind
their compact SUV and they are going 
TWO
freakin’ miles an hour
 because they don’t know how to tow a trailer. Just when
you are thinking you have four wheel drive and there is really no reason you
can’t put it in four wheel low and cut across the potato field next to the
road, the sign-holding guy looks up from his cellphone, startled because the
walkie-talkie clipped to his vest made a noise. Then, a miracle occurs, or the
guys leaning on shovels need to cross the road to get to the box of donuts,
because the sign swings from STOP to SLOW and traffic lurches forward
triumphantly! Or it would, except the old schoolbus full of organic granola
hippies in front of you got a wheel stuck in a muddy pothole, and it is staying
in place while one tire spins furiously, spewing mud all over your windshield.

Where was I going with that story? Oh yeah. At our
construction zone, I was the useless asshole wearing a yellow vest, a hardhat
and a gosh-darned 
necktie
, shouting
at the people moving the ten-ton steel I-beam to be careful, as if that thought
had never occurred to them, 
duh
. I
was not wearing a necktie, I was wearing a powered armor suit like everyone
else. Instead of construction, we were in the process of excavation, of digging
an Elder dropship out from under a pile of dirt and rocks.

Before Frey fell through the floor, Skippy had
zero interest in the moon itself, he had concentrated all his efforts on
scanning what was left of the Elder base. Because he found tiny pieces of Elder
starships scattered across the surface of the moon or buried in the first meter
of dust, he had not bothered to look deeper. Literally deeper, like down under
the first layer of dust and the dead lunar soil that our nerdnik science team
calls ‘regolith’ as if that matters. After Katie had her fortunate accident,
Skippy had scanned deeper beneath the surface, at first in case there were
dangers hidden beneath the base that might threaten Katie. Either Skippy had a
crush on our athletic sportgirl, or he was trying extra hard to impress the new
crewmembers, because he broke his recent streak of distracted absent-mindedness
and focused intensely on getting Katie out of her predicament.

She was never in actual danger, a fact Skippy
realized with what I thought was undisguised disappointment because he did not
have an opportunity to be a hero by saving her. The good news, for both Skippy
and his barrel of monkeys, was the virtual model he slapped together to analyze
the moon’s subsurface yielded a happy surprise; a crashed Elder dropship that
had hit the side of a lunar mountain, then got buried in the landslide. The
dropship, technically a small starship according to Skippy, was in one big and
many small pieces. What we cared about was the forward section that contained
the cabin, where Skippy’s scans indicated we should find several valuable
pieces of Elder technology.

Oh, and, by the way, we also found the body of an
Elder.

It blew my mind when I heard that. Skippy’s voice
was shaking when he told me he had found the broken body of a biological being
reclining on a couch, and since there were no other intelligent species in the
galaxy back then, the body had to be an Elder. We had been to many Elder sites
in the local quadrant of the galaxy, even landed on the planet Gingerbread in
the Roach Motel, and had never encountered a since speck of evidence about what
the Elders looked like. Now we had a dead one, intact.

That was why we were acting like Indiana Jones on
the moon, except there weren’t any bad guys shooting at us, and instead of a
cool hat and a bullwhip, we had powered armor suits and makeshift digging
tools. Skippy had sent some of his dedicated cleaning bots down to do part of
the work, and he demanded to come with them. I had vetoed that idea, too many
times the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
 had gotten surprised and I wanted our magical beer can
with the ship in case it needed to jump away.

The bots weren’t especially good at clearing away
moondust, static made the damned stuff cling to everything, so within ten
minutes everyone’s suits were surrounded by a gray outline, as dust was
repelled by our suit’s electrical fields. Working at first by using our suits’
power to lift away rocks, then with shovels, then carefully by hand and finally
by using brushes to ever-so-softly sweep away the last layer of fine dead gray
soil and dust, we exposed the cracked hull of the crashed Elder ship. From
Skippy’s scans, we knew what it looked like even when it was still buried; sort
of like the smooth, pointy end of an egg. He thought the entire ship had been
like an almost featureless elongated egg before it was shot down or whatever
happened to it. There was no sign of the power unit that he thought had
occupied most of the rear half of the ship, it had likely blown up. Instead of
a jagged tear where the forward section had broken loose, his scans showed a
smooth outline, which made him think the front section had been designed to
physically separate in case of emergency.

After we got dust and soil cleared away from the
rear of what remained of the Elder craft, we set up a tent that acted as a
decontamination chamber, to clean dust off our suits before entering the
dropship’s cabin. One of Skippy’s bots went first, running through the decontamination
process, then waited for a second bot to be cleaned. The first bot was then
meticulously examined by the second little robot while I impatiently waited for
my suit to be cleaned. There was a beep in my helmet speakers when the process
ended and my suit was cleaner than when I had gotten into the thing aboard the
Dutchman. The two bots were still fussing over each other, so I leaned forward
and reached out a hand toward the smooth silvery surface of the dropship’s
hull. “Skippy, I don’t see anything like a door or even a porthole here, how
can we get-” 

“
Do not
touch that you filthy monkey
!” He shouted, making me wince he was so loud.

Pulling my gloved hand away before it contacted
the dull silver surface, I took a step backward. “Damn, sorry, Skippy,” I
muttered, kind of pissed off at him. I know he revered and almost worshipped
the Elders, but he had gone too far that time. My team may be filthy monkeys
but we were there and we were alive, which is more than I can say for the
supposedly great Elders. “Listen, I know the Elders were practically gods to
you, but I’m getting tired of hearing humans are not worthy to-”

“Joe,
 I

am sorry, I should not have said it that way. My bad. Yes, I greatly revere the
Elders for who they were and what they did, their accomplishments are still
unmatched. And yes, a part of me feels horrible revulsion when I think of your
species touching the remains of an Elder or one of their wondrous creations.
However, the reason I warned you not to touch that ship is for your own safety.
My memory has too many gaps for me to be confident I can anticipate how the
hull of that ship might react to you coming into contact with it.”

“Jeez, Skippy,” I leaned forward and peered at the
silvered surface, which under magnification I could see was scuffed and dull.
“React how? This thing is dead, it’s millions of years old and busted.”

“I am millions of years old, dumdum, and I was
sort of busted. Please, allow my bots to take the risk, that is what they are
for.”

“Ok,” I took another step back. Crap. If it were
dangerous for me to touch the hull, was it dangerous to have my team anywhere
near the thing? “Wait!” One of the bots had begun scurrying toward the
featureless “Uh, maybe we should clear out of here first, us humans I mean.”

“That might be a good idea. It would have been a
great idea for you to think of it an hour ago, dumdum.”

 

We cleared out of the area. To be safe, I flew the
Falcon over the horizon and behind a ridge, flying it in lazy circles rather
than setting it down. If we needed to get away in a hurry, I did not want to
waste time powering up for takeoff. Also, I ordered the 
Dutchman
 to maneuver behind the moon, and to save time, Simms asked
Nagatha to perform a short jump rather than flying the long way through normal
space. “Ok, Skippy,” I watched a view from one of the bots in my helmet
faceplate. “Do your thing. Uh, how are your bots getting in there? I still
don’t see a door.”

“Elder ships did not have anything crude like a
 door
, Joe. Their hulls had sections of
nanomaterial and fields where energy is held suspended temporarily in a
material state, it is way too complicated for me to explain.”

“Yeah, I know,” I sighed knowing the entire crew
could hear me. “I’m a dumdum.”

“Oh, it’s not just you, Joe. Your smartest
supposed ‘scientists’ could not possibly fully understand the concepts of this
energy/matter conversion. To break it down Barney-style for you, think of
energy as water and matter as ice. Same thing in different states.”

“Oh. Like, uh, smooth and crunchy peanut butter?”
I guessed.

That drew a heavy sigh from His Magnificence.
“Yes, Joe, the peanut butter analogy is the absolute 
best
 way to explain it. If we ever meet the Rindhalu, you should
impress them with your deep understanding of the subject.”

“You don’t 
always

have to be an asshole.”

“I will stop being an asshole when you stop being
a dumdum, deal? Anywho, I am about to request the hull to form an opening. Huh.
Well, darn it, looks like nobody’s home. I’m not getting any response at all.
You were right, Joe, this thing is dead as a doornail, the matter has reverted
to a fully solid state. Hmm, even the nano appears to be inert. Crap! Once the
nano has gone without power for that long, the tetronic bonds dissolve and- Ah,
no point explaining this to you. We’ll have to do this the hard way.”

I did not like the sound of that. “What, pray
tell, is the hard way?”

Before Skippy could answer, one of the bots that
looked like a green toaster with a bunch of creepy legs and tentacles stepped
toward the hull, pressing the tip of a tentacle to hull’s surface. A door then
opened on the top of the toaster body and a second tentacle dipped inside,
coming out with a nasty-looking thing I recognized as a sort of Thuranin
cutting device that Skippy had modified to make even more effective. A light
flared as the tip of the device approached the Elder ship’s hull. “
This
 is the hard way, Joe,” he said as
the little bot began cutting into the silvery hull material. “I know what you
are thinking and don’t worry; this thing is truly inert. At least, the rear
bulkhead is inert.”

“You are sure that cutting torch,” the light was
flaring really bright as the bot cut away a circle, “isn’t feeding energy into
that nano stuff? That the nano isn’t going to come back to life and form up
into a monster that will destroy those bots then come looking for us?”

“Please,” he scoffed. “Little Joey watched too
many bad sci fi movies. If there is a totally unexpected reaction, you will be
first to know.”

“Well, thank you 
so
 much for keeping me informed, Skippy. Your concern greatly warms
my heart.”

“Oh, I meant you will be first to know because
your Falcon will be the first target, but let’s go with the heart-warming
concern thing.”

“Asshole,” I muttered, knowing the entire crew
could hear that also and not caring.

 

Nothing bad happened. In fact, several good things
happened. The little bots cut a hole just big enough for the smaller of the two
to slip inside, and we got a view of the cabin. That ship did not have a
separate cockpit, the Elders apparently controlled the craft with their minds
so no pilot console was needed. That explained why the body was in the second
row of couches, with no one up front. When I asked what the Elders used as a
backup in case their fancy brain-control thing failed, he snorted that the
brain-control thing 
was
 the backup,
that the primary control was an AI that responded to the wishes of the pilot.
Then he relented and explained that Elder pilots had a secondary backup control
in the form of a holographic sort of console that would appear on command in
front of the pilot. In fact, he saw evidence that holographic mechanism had
been activated just before the crash, in a last desperate attempt to avoid disaster.
Clearly, it had not worked.

Much of the hardware of the dropship was fried and
useless, made of exotic materials that had reverted to their mundane original
state over the millions of years the ship was buried. When the forward section
of the ship had separated from the power module aft, the maneuver had been
violent enough to break loose things inside the cabin, Skippy thought the Elder
inside had sustained serious, possibly fatal injuries even before the forward
section plunged down to impact the lunar mountain. Unlike what he originally
thought, separation had not been an intentional act by the pilot. When the
dropship was attacked, the explosion had caused the AI to dissolve the energy
bonds that attached the forward section to the doomed power module, in a
desperate and ultimately failed attempt to protect the pilot. When the ship
smacked into the mountain, stuff that wasn’t already flying free inside the
cabin broke loose, including several unoccupied seats. Before the AI ceased to
function, it must have diverted all available power to a suspensor field around
the pilot, cradling that being in an energy field that damped motion down to
the cellular level. That precaution had not worked either. The super-tough
material of the hull had survived mostly intact, with only the nose shattered
and the first quarter of the hull crushed in like an accordion.

Anyway, the inside of the cabin was a mess, with
stuff thrown around and jumbled together at the side of the cabin that was on
the bottom, when the tumbling dropship came to rest on the bottom of the
mountain and got buried under the landslide caused by the impact.

We, or technically Skippy’s helpful little
elfbots, did find some cool useful stuff. The most important items were another
comm node, a real zero-point energy power tap device, and what got me excited,
another wormhole controller module to supplement the one we had been using
since our first mission. Having the last two items gave me an idea to bail us
out of our current predicament, but more about that later. You have probably
been thinking ‘Bishop, cut the blah blah blah about minor crap you found and 
TELL ME ABOUT THAT ELDER PILOT’
.

Whew. Ok, got that. Yeah, when Skippy’s bots were
crawling around in their creepy insect-like way, examining the cabin and stuff
we could see laying in a jumbled pile, I was shouting at him to turn his
attention to the barely-seen form of something, or someone, in that second-row
couch. He was reluctant to show us the body and I understood his feelings, he
did not want filthy curious monkeys idly gawking at the broken body of a
supreme being with our unworthy eyeballs. It’s like why police cover bodies
with a sheet, to respect the dead and prevent onlookers from satisfying their
gruesome curiosity. It took a lot of talking for me to convince him that we 
needed
 to finally know what an Elder
looked like.

Ok, so he turned one of the bots to focus on the
Elder. Before he stunned us with the revelation that the crashed dropship
contained a body of the ultimate senior species, I had not recently given a lot
of thought about what the Elders might look like. When we were on Gingerbread,
I kept hoping to find at least bones, or a statue or even an outline carved
into a rock. At that point, I would have been happy with a crude drawing of an
Elder on a bathroom door with a sign like ‘Garmegell eats chootah’.

We did not find any amusing signs scrawled on the
bathroom door of the dropship, in fact the little craft did not have any sort
of washroom or galley that Skippy could detect. So, we had to satisfy ourselves
with seeing the broken body of an Elder.

Whatever I thought an Elder would look like, the
reality was different. From old sci fi movies, I had a notion that the more
advanced a being was, the more it would look like little green dudes like the
Thuranin, or the creepy humans with giant heads who worshipped atomic bombs in
one of those Planet of the Apes movies. As beings became more advanced and less
reliant on physical size and strength, they would become smaller and softer.

What we saw was not like that. This Elder was
eight feet tall and heavily muscled. Its head had a bony crest with
backward-pointing spikes, its fingers ended in long claws, and its snout was
long and full of sharp teeth. The snout wasn’t real long like a crocodile, more
like a dog, but overall the thing was vaguely reptilian. The Elders kind of
looked like what the Kristang might like to evolve into someday.

“Holy shit, Skippy,” I said when I was able to
stop holding my breath from shock. “That thing, I mean, that Elder, looks like
a gladiator. Were they all like that?” I asked, thinking maybe there were
multiple types of Elder, and the one we found had been genetically modified for
military service. If so, it might not have needed a power-assisted mech suit,
its muscles looked like they would be enough for super feats of strength and
speed. “Oh, sorry, that was a dumb question. You don’t have any other Elders
for comparison.”

“It was a dumb question, Joe,” he replied in the
hushed tone he had been using since his bots entered what he considered the
holy presence of an Elder, even a dead one. “However, I have enough information
from a DNA scan to determine that yes, what we are seeing is the base
configuration of an Elder.”

“Uh, base configuration?” When he said that, I had
a mental image of an Elder that could remove its arms to plug in custom attachments,
like weapons or a weedwhacker. That image almost made me laugh, which would
have greatly offended Skippy, so fortunately I bit the inside of my cheek to
stifle my mirth.

“Elder biology does not utilize DNA the way humans
think of the term, however they do have complex chemical strands that determine
how their bodies process energy and grow. Their DNA-equivalent could be
modified by interaction with nanoscale implants, at the user’s desire or
requirement.”

“Whoa,” that blew my mind. “They can, like, make
their arms longer to reach something on a shelf above their heads?”

“It doesn’t work that quickly, dumdum,” he dropped
the reverent hushed voice and went into full-snarky mode when disparaging my
intelligence. “
Duh
. For example, if
an Elder were to visit a heavy-gravity planet, it could adjust its DNA ahead of
time to grow stronger bones and muscles. Or it could, I guess, grow gills to
breath underwater.”

“Wow. Muscles and bones stronger than what that
thing- Sorry, that 
person
, already
has?”

“Correct, Joe. The biological bones of that Elder
are merely a framework for a much more robust composite structure. If it were
not for the reinforced structure of his body, I suspect that even with the
suspensor field, the body would be in many small pieces.”

“Uh, him? That’s a he, a guy?”

“Yes, a male. Elder biology was based on gender
binarism, in the strictly reproductive sense of the word ‘gender’. I can tell
you that, based on my analysis of this body’s biochemistry, their females
apparently were the same size and basic configuration.”

“I would not like to meet either of them in a dark
alley,” my shoulders shuddered involuntarily. Those claws, dulled by extreme
age, still looked like they could slice me open. “His body is well-preserved,”
I noted.

“It is. The cabin was exposed to partial vacuum,
and the nanomachines woven into his biology have largely prevented decay. Joe,”
his voice switched from my helmet speakers to the earpiece, indicating he was
speaking on a private channel. “Please tell me your intentions regarding this
Elder.”

“You mean, do I want to bring him aboard the 
Dutchman
?” My mind had been racing on
that subject, trying to judge the alternatives. “No, I do not. Skippy, I think
we take the stuff that you think is useful, then your bots seal that hole and
we leave him there in peace.”

“Thank you, Joe,” he said with almost a sob. “You
are a good person, I am proud to be your friend. It would have bothered me
greatly to bring the victim of this crash back to Earth for curious humans to
gawk at him.”

“I agree.” Part of my reason for leaving the body
there was because I thought seeing it would cause panic on Earth. Plus, if
authorities on Earth really wanted to closely examine the corpse, they would
have to send the 
Flying Dutchman
 back
out. “Going back to Earth is a long way off, we still need to stop those
Maxolhx ships. That dropship doesn’t have any weapons we could use?”

“It does not contain anything like a weapon at
all, sorry.”

“All right. Wrap it up at your convenience, Ok?”
If Skippy wanted a moment alone with the body, through his little bots, I
wanted to give him all the time he needed.

“Thank you, but I’m good, Joe,” his tone was a bit
louder and reflected his disappointment. “We have found everything there is to
find here.”

“Hey, we found more than we expected. A 
lot
 more.”

“Eh, sure, I guess. We already have a wormhole
controller module, and all the comm nodes we’ve found so far have been
inactive.”

“We now have a spare wormhole controller, and a
super-duper Elder battery thing. Plus, you don’t 
know
 this comm node is inactive. Maybe this one is working just
fine.”

 

The comm node was, like the others we had found,
inactive. Or it was unable to connect to the network, or the network was down,
or Skippy didn’t know how to use it. To spare his feelings, I refrained from
asking whether maybe he was talking into the wrong end of the thing, or maybe
it needed to be plugged in. Or if there was an instruction manual lying around
somewhere. Best would be a YouTube video where an Elder shows how to properly
use a communications node, but that is too much to ask for.

The comm node was bad news but that was no big
deal, we had stolen or found inactive comm nodes before and Skippy had not been
looking for one, so he was not disappointed when our latest acquisition wasn’t
functional.

The other two items got me very excited. “Skippy,
the wormhole controller works Ok, you’re sure?”

“I can’t be absolutely one hundred percent sure
until I try to monkey with a wormhole again, which if you remember, is what got
us into this mess.”

“I do remember.” Why do people like to remind you
of stuff you already know, that they 
know

you know, especially when the thing they are reminding you about is one of your
major screw-ups? “How confident are you that it works properly?”

“Oh, supremely confident. I have connected to it
through high spacetime, and it responded perfectly. Um, Joe, there is something
we should talk about.”

“Can it wait like, ten minutes? I have to secure
the Falcon.” The dropship was in its docking cradle but there were a lot of
steps I needed to perform to make sure it was shut down properly and ready for
the next flight.

“No, it can’t wait, and don’t bother shutting
down. In fact, send someone to my mancave to get me, we need to go on a road
trip.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY SEVEN

 

The road trip was for me and Skippy, no one else.
With our crew barely large enough for the mission, I didn’t want to risk
additional people. Skippy had suggested we put him in the Falcon and remotely
pilot it for him, but he also suggested the Dutchman jump away to be safe, so
the signal lag would be too great for effective remote piloting of the Falcon.
Plus, he did not know what he would find out there, and wanted my monkey brain
with him in case he encountered something dangerous.

I was touched by his concern for me.

The road trip was not an epic long weekend, it
involved only a three-hour flight in the Falcon, although I had to endure
sustained four-Gee thrust to get moving, then three times Earth’s gravity to
slow down near the target. What was the target? Skippy did not know, or he
wasn’t sure. He thought it could be an active comm node, because something out there
had a connection to higher spacetime and the obvious candidate, given the
weakness of the connection, was an Elder communications node on standby, or
operating at low power. The 
Dutchman
’s
sensors had not detected anything, which annoyed Nagatha and threw her into a
funk because she had not been kept in the loop by Skippy.

The beer can explained that he had been
concentrating his attention on the moon and only gave surrounding space a
cursory scan, until he picked up something unusual. Scattered debris from 
another
 Elder starship, this one in an
elliptical orbit that took it far from the moon. At first, even the discovery
of a third Elder ship did not spark his curiosity into overdrive, he already
knew there had been a battle in the area and the exact number of ships involved
was not very important.

Then he did look more closely at the third ship,
or actually one of his subminds got bored with composing songs to mock the
great Skippy, and decided to look at the data. What it found did get Skippy’s
full attention.

“Joe, that third ship was Elder tech of a
different design, slightly more advanced. The technology is merely an
interesting datapoint and I would eventually have archived it, but I found
another anomaly. The third ship was destroyed much later, much more recently.
Like, around the time that Newark was thrown out of orbit.”

“Oh shit.”

“Yup, that’s what I said.”

“There were 
two

space battles here, both involving Elder ships?”

“Apparently, yes. Battles many millions of years
apart. Another fun fact, if you are interested, is some of the damage to that
Elder site happened around the time the third ship was destroyed. It looks like
someone came back a long time later to finish the job of erasing evidence of
the Elder presence in this star system.”

“This signal of whatever you’re tracking, it is
from wreckage of the Elder third ship?”

“I think so, because the object is in a similar
elliptical orbit.”

“Just the one object? You didn’t find any big
pieces of the third ship, something we might be able to use?”

“No, destruction of that ship was violent and
complete. To be honest, I am not detecting an object at all. What I do know is
something out there has an active connection to higher spacetime. The
connection is weak and intermittent, that leads me to believe that comm node is
damaged.”

“Comm node or whatever else it is. You don’t know
it’s a comm node for sure.”

“True, however, I do not know what else it could
be.”

Given Skippy’s inability to think outside the box,
I was not comforted by his not being able to imagine what could be out there.
“Ah, hell, we’ll find out in,” I checked the console, “forty two minutes.”

 

I was wrong about the forty two minute timeline.
Not wrong about the navigation, I had no illusion about being a great pilot but
plotting a course to where Skippy wanted to go in empty space was fairly simple
math, even for me. To get to the object quickly, I planned a three Gee
deceleration to bring us to a halt relative to the unseen object at a distance
of one hundred thousand kilometers, a nice round number that Skippy thought
would be super conservative for safety. Once we were stationary relative to
whatever it was, Skippy would scan it with his own sensors, then I could move
us closer slowly and carefully. The only possible problem would be the Falcon’s
engines cutting out before we finished cancelling our velocity, leaving us to
go shooting past the thing.

That is sort of what happened, the Falcon’s
engines did cut off prematurely when we were nineteen thousand kilometers from
where I wanted to stop. Except I did not screw up, nor was there a mechanical
problem with our Thuranin dropship.

“Huh, that’s weird,” Skippy muttered.

My focus was on the instruments and on breathing
deep and even to counteract the extra weight on my chest from the deceleration.
“Weird is not good,” I grunted in a hoarse voice. “What is it?” My left index
finger hovered over a button that would engage an abort course, flipping the
Falcon ninety degrees and going to eight Gees to get us out of there.

“It looks like you were right, it is 
not
 a communications node. It must be
some type of equipment that survived destruction of the ship, something that-
ick app thow ger unn too gann-” he continued stuttering nonsense like that, his
voice cutting in and out. With my helmet sealed, he was talking through my
earpiece and I shook my head, wondering if the creepy like spider thing had
fallen out.

“Skippy, you’re breaking up.” I expected he would
complain about how stupid and clumsy monkeys are. “What did you say?”

“
GET OUT OF
HERE
!” He shouted clearly and my finger flexed to engage the abort course-

 

A choking sensation woke me up, that and needing
to sneeze. When I opened my eyes, I almost wished I hadn’t, I was tumbling head
over heels so fast the starfield was going by with nausea-inducing speed. A
feature of Kristang flightsuit faceplates is they go clear when power is cut
off, and my suit was completely dead. Which was why I felt like I was
suffocating, I 
was
 suffocating. The
oxygen recycler was offline, along with everything else.

Where the hell was the Falcon? I remember being in
the left-hand pilot couch of a Falcon and Skippy shouting a warning, then
nothing. Ok, first I manually got the emergency oxygen supply started and in
moments, blessedly sweet, clean oxygen was blowing from a vent in my helmet.
Taking a deep breath made me sneeze, an unfortunate event because the static
field inside the faceplate was offline. Also, with a helmet on I could not
squeeze my nose or do anything other than scrunch up my lip to suppress another
sneeze. It worked well enough.

“Skippy?” I called. There was no answer. “Skippy?”
I called out louder, as if that would help in space. Even with the flightsuit
dead, I should be able to hear him through my earpiece. Except, what was that
thing bouncing off the upper right corner of the faceplate? Crap, it was the
earpiece. It must have come loose and floated out of my ear. 
That
 should not ever happen, the thing
must be dead. What the hell was going on?

Then I got another shock. Something was banging
against my waist and shoulders. Feeling around with the non-powered arms of my
suit, I realized I was still strapped into the pilot couch, or part of the
pilot couch. The straps were fancy nanotech fibers that adjusted automatically,
the also had a manual release mechanism that I fumbled with until I got the
straps loose. The broken couch floated away, giving me a glimpse of it as I
flipped head over heels. It was not only broken, to me it appeared to have been
severed cleanly from the Falcon, sliced away by something. Had the 
Dutchman
’s crew cut the couch away from
the dropship to rescue me? If so, where were they and why was I tumbling out of
control in a dead flightsuit? And where was the rest of the Dragon?

Most importantly, where was Skippy?

 

Without any sort of clock, I had no idea how much
time had passed since I turned on the emergency oxygen flow. Spinning so
rapidly made blood pool in my head, giving me a headache and making me dizzy.
It was a toss-up which would make me more nauseous; keeping my eyes closed so
my inner ears had no frame of reference, or opening my eyes and watching the
stars spin past. Whatever happened, I could not get sick in my helmet or I
would risk clogging the air vents. Since first going into zero gravity aboard a
Kristang troop transport at the space elevator above Ecuador, I had gotten
space sick three times, none of those incidents were recent. NASA astronauts
sometimes got over initial space sickness, but sometimes people who had
completed several space missions could suddenly be stricken by nausea in zero
gravity. Fortunately, I had eaten a small and bland breakfast of oatmeal and
toast, partly because I had been nervous about going down to the Elder site and
partly because I was too lazy to make anything else.

By flashing my eyes open and shut quickly, I
determined nothing had changed. The local star was still flashing past
regularly as I tumbled, fortunately the star was off to my left and not shining
directly into my eyes. That would have been-

Wait. Something 
was
 different. There was another star out there, a bright one.

And it was getting closer.

Trying to watch had me on the verge of ralphing in
my helmet, so I shut my eyes and waited. If the approaching bright object was
hostile, there was nothing I could do about it. Part of me was hoping the light
was a missile, because a quick death was preferable to what would happen when
my oxygen ran out.

Something slammed into me and my arms were encased
in a vice-like grip. Instinctively I tried to flail my arms but in an unpowered
suit there was no chance I could break away.

“I got you I got you I got you,” a muffled voice
announced through helmet to helmet contact.

“
Poole
?”
I was so relieved I opened my eyes and regretted it, with Poole’s mass attached
to my own, we were now wobbling about all three axes and my brain was rattling
in my skull.
  
“Is that you?”

“Yes,” her voice was strained. She must be
struggling with nausea like I was. “Relax, Sir.”

 

The light I had seen was Captain Poole in a
jetpack, coming to latch onto me. I got the full story from Skippy later, after
Poole got me aboard a dropship and we flew off to recover Skippy. It took both
of us a while to recover from having our brains tossed, around as the jetpack
worked to stabilize our wild tumbling. Holding his beer can in my hands, I was
surprised to see a slight discoloration of his previous uniformly shiny silver
surface. “Skippy,” I strapped him securely to a seat and gave Porter and
Edwards the signal to fly us back to the 
Dutchman
.
“What the hell was that?”

“It was an AI, Joe. I’m sorry.”

“An AI?” When I heard ‘AI’ I immediately thought
of the artificial intelligences at the Bosphuraq moonbase, in the Maxolhx relay
station and in the pixie factory. “
Oh
,”
I gasped when realization hit me.

“Yeah, an 
Elder

AI.”

“Like you?”

“Close enough. Sorry, Joe, I screwed up. It never
crossed my mind that signal I detected was the local spacetime connection of an
AI like me. My connection is much stronger, like orders of magnitude stronger,
and also much quieter. If that AI had been fully functional like me, I could
not have detected it unless it shouted and waved its arms.”

“
Had

been functional?”

“It’s gone now. Wait, no one briefed you on what
happened?”

“No, Skippy,” I shook my head and regretted that action.
“I have a massive headache. Plus when I got aboard the dropship, I couldn’t
help ralphing.” Poole had actually beat me to the Falcon’s tiny bathroom to
puke in the proper receptacle, I used my helmet. Then I passed out, being
revived only to lose what was left in my stomach.

“We thought you were dead, Sir,” Poole explained,
rubbing her very pale face with a towel. “The explosion, it was like a tactical
nuke.”

“Not quite,” Skippy corrected. “But it was a
massive explosion, that is true.”

“Could someone please explain what happened?” I
pleaded. “Where is the Falcon I was flying?”

“The Falcon is 
gone
,
Joe. That AI was insane, Joe, damaged and insane. Also, it was not self-aware,
and I think that unlike me, it was never sapient, or ‘sentient’ if you prefer
that term. It attacked without warning as soon as we were within its effective
radius, and I was totally unprepared. Most of the energy thrown at us was
absorbed by me and channeled into another spacetime, but the Falcon’s mass was
converted to subatomic particles. You are alive because I created a spacetime
bubble around us to protect you. Then I had to release you so I could fight
back. That AI used tactics and capabilities I did not know were possible, I
still do not understand most of the technology it employed against us. Against 
me
, really, you and the Falcon were
collateral damage.”

“Hey, uh, thanks for saving my life. You know,
again.”

“You are very welcome.” He missed a golden
opportunity to boast about himself, that told me more than his words did about
how shaken up he was. “My fault for poking my nose into dark scary places.”

“You said this AI was insane? You think that, because
it attacked you?”

“No. The attack implies hostility, not insanity.
It was babbling, Joe, completely incoherent. The attack was also incoherent, it
could have destroyed me right away but the energies and spacetime distortions
it used were unfocused and it seemed to lose track of me, or forget about me,
halfway through. That AI was totally bonkers, Joe. Its poor control over itself
allowed me to recover, protect myself and you, and consolidate my own resources
to strike back. The whole incident took less than two seconds in meatsack time,
an eternity in my time.”

“How did you beat it?”

“At first, I tried to activate the computer worm that
I found inside it, although that was desperation on my part. The worm should
have killed that thing back when it went insane, so I did not have high hopes
for Mister Wormy to come to my rescue. There was no response. Either the worm
was also damaged, or the corrupted matrix of the AI rendered it immune to the
worm. Anyway, while the AI forgot about me and was randomly creating rips in
spacetime, I was able to feed part of its energy back on itself, and, well, I
kinda made it destroy itself. That was the explosion, it lost containment.”

Hearing that disappointed and confused me. “It
lost containment, with less force than a tactical nuke?”

“Ah, you are thinking loss of containment should
have been a planet-shattering event? That would be true if the AI had been near
a planet or moon. It lost containment in empty space, so there was little mass
in the area to convert into energy. Also, its connection to higher spacetime
was already weak and tenuous, so only a minor part of the AI’s true self came
through the connection. Our presence here in local spacetime is mostly sort of
an anchor so we can act effectively here, Joe. By ‘our’ I mean AIs like me.”

“Yeah, I got that. Hell, Skippy, what do we do
now?”

“I recommend we make like a shepherd and get the
flock out of here,” he declared without a trace of humor.

“Working on it, Sir,” Edwards reported from the
copilot seat. “ETA at the 
Dutchman
 is
fifteen minutes.”

It had taken me three hours to fly from the ship
to where the insane AI attacked, but now we could get back in less than half an
hour? “That’s quick,” I remarked.

“Colonel Simms jumped the ship in soon as we
received Skippy’s signal,” Porter explained from the pilot’s seat. “Most of the
delay in rendezvousing with you was because the explosion blew you backwards at
seventeen thousand kph,” he shook his head. “I don’t know how it didn’t kill
you.”

“I had a beer can looking out for me,” I shuddered
involuntarily. When we got back to the ship, I was going to need sleep, and I
wasn’t getting it until the ship had safely jumped away.

 

 

Skippy takes things way too literally sometimes.
After being treated for my injuries by Mad Doctor Skippy, I was still sleeping
at 0900 Hours when I was awakened by a commotion in the passageway outside my
door, and by my zPhone beeping with a message from Simms. 
You need to see this
, the message read. I instantly shot out of
bed, whacking my head on the overhead cabinet for the thousandth freakin’ time.
As I rubbed my head and swung my feet to the floor, I noticed Simms had added a
winking emoji to the end of her message. What the hell?

Dressing quickly, I got a shirt, pants and boots
on and slapped the button to open the door. Before I saw the source of the
commotion, I heard it. Whether it was intentional or not, the voice sounded
like it was talking over one of those tinny, low-fidelity speakers you hear at
summer camp or in a big store, because it was like someone talking from the
bottom of a well. “Vote for Skippy! Skippy means progress! A vote for Skippy is
a vote for 
success
!”

Then it came around a corner and got louder. It
was a familiar bot that rolled on treads, a bot I had seen performing cleaning
or routine maintenance chores around the ship. On top, instead of cleaning
attachments, were two speakers and a big poster of Lord Admiral Skippy, smiling
and looking calm and confident. “S-K-I-P-P-Y stands for Success! Kindness!
Integrity! Prosperity! And, um, something else that starts with the letter ‘P’.
Crap, um, Progress! Yeah, Progress! And the ‘Y’ is for 
Yes
 We Can! Vote for Skip-”

“Skippy,” I stood in front of the bot, waving my
arms and forcing it to grind to a halt. “What the hell is this?”

His avatar appeared, floating in the air at my eye
level. “Joe, it would violate my well-known and documented integrity to speak
with my opponent outside of a scheduled debate. Please save your questions
for-”

“Doc-documented? Your 
integrity
? You are talking about the Skippy who screws with us just
for amusement?”

“Exactly, Joe. People know I am an asshole, so
when I act like an asshole, I am acting with the integrity people expect.”

“You get a pass for being an asshole,” I spoke
slowly because my brain was processing his statement, “because you admit you’re
an asshole?”

“Egg-
zactly
.
I don’t make the social rules you monkeys follow, Joe, I just take advantage of
them for my benefit. I mean,” he waved a hand. “I mean, I adhere to social
conventions. Or some bullshit like that. Whatever. See, 
you
 pretend to be a super nice guy, so when you do anything even
remotely not perfect, people say ‘Aha! I knew he was a phony jerk’. I am much
more honest, because I tell people up front that I think your entire species is
a woefully underdeveloped ignorant collection of disorganized chemicals, and
people 
love
 me.”

“I, I actually cannot argue with you about that.”

“Joe, to be fair, we really should wait for the
debate before we talk.”

“De- debate? What debate? What is this? You are
running for election as what? Supreme Asshole?”

“No, Joe. Please, try to keep up with current
events, huh? I am running for 
your

job, you know, captain of the ship, commander of the mission, all that.”

“Uh, 
what
?
This is not a democrac- Oh, 
shit
.”
Damn it, just then I remembered telling the beer can that pirate ship crews
often used to choose their officers. “Skippy, I did not mean that thing about
pirate democracy literally.”

“Why not?” He asked like a toddler who had been
told he can’t have ice cream for breakfast. “Does your authority to command
this mission come from UNEF?”

“Uh, no.”

“From the United Nations at all? No?” He answered
for me. “How about the United States Army? Did they authorize you to lead this
mission, this vitally important mission, which so far has been a disorganized,
chaotic mess?”

“You know the answer to that question, Skippy.”

“I 
do

know the answer, and the crew knows the answer. We are pirates, and the crew
has the right to choose their leaders.”

“Uh huh. The answer is to put a beer can in charge
of making decisions?”

“Come on, Joe, seriously, could I do any worse
than you? We have taken enormous risks already, and still you have no idea how
we can stop two Maxolhx ships from reaching Earth. This whole mission has been a
screw-up, right from the start.”

“Uh, 
yes
.
Most of the screw-ups were caused by 
you
.
At the moonbase, you failed to account for that fighter patrol taking off from
the moonbase, though you should have known about it from hacking into their
comm system. You didn’t know the crawler was taking a different route, that is
another thing that must have been listed in a database you had access to. You
should have known that Smythe’s team would make the crawler too heavy to travel
its route. You for damned sure should have known power was cut to part of the
base. And don’t even get me started about your major screw-ups at the pixie
factory, and for nearly getting us killed by an Elder AI. That’s just the
beginning of-”

“
Ugh
,
what I hear is ‘blah blah blah Joe is looking for someone to blame’. Oh, this
is 
so
 sad. Listen, dumdum, I will
admit that some minor mistakes were made, if you will admit all the screw-ups
happened on 
your
 watch. You know how
absent-minded I allegedly am-”

“
Allegedly
?
Minor mistakes? What the hell would you consider a major mistake?”

“Ugh,” his avatar emphasized the sigh with a
combination shoulder shrug and folding arms across its chest. “They were all by
definition ‘minor’, because the operations ultimately were successful, despite
your lack of planning. Joe, we can cover all these arguments during our
campaign debate, but let us not lose sight of the big picture: we are out here
on this most desperate of missions because 
you

failed to consider the long-term effects of ordering me to screw with Elder
wormholes. Can you argue with that?”

“No,” I sulked like a kid who had been caught with
his hand in the cookie jar. “You are promising mission success if you get
elected?”

“Oh, 
pbbbbbbbt
,”
he blew a raspberry. “Come on, Joe, those are 
campaign
 promises. You monkeys know such promises are 
total
 bullshit, but you vote for the
candidates anyway, which proves how deeply stupid you are as a species. Don’t
worry, Joe, once I am elected as supreme leader, there will be a place on my
team for you. I will focus on the big-picture items like my ‘vision for our
future’, although I am not quite sure what this ‘vision’ thing is, the public
seems to want one, so I will need to slap together some bullshit that sounds
good. On my team, you can handle the small stuff like strategic planning.”

“Strategic planning is ‘
small stuff’
?”

“Details, Joe,” he flicked a hand in a dismissive
wave. “And, speaking of details, you and Smythe had better handle the tactical
planning too, I certainly will not have time to that trivial stuff.”

“Let me see if I understand this, Ok? Under your
supreme and benevolent leadership, I will be doing all the things I am doing
now, while you do, what exactly?”

“I 
told

you, I will provide a ‘vision’. Also I will provide inspiring leadership.”

“Uh huh. What happens if another mission goes
wrong?”

“Then clearly I will be severely disappointed by
the knucklehead my administration relied on for planning. But,” his avatar
hopped up and down excitedly. “When a mission is successful, I take all the
credit. Neat, huh?”

I facepalmed myself and shook my head. “Yeah,
neat.”

“I don’t make the social rules that govern monkey
society, Joe. All I do is manipulate those rules for my benefit. Hey! Maybe 
that
 can be my vision?”

“Uh, yeah, why don’t you try that as a campaign
slogan?”

“Good ide- Wait! I suspect you are trying dirty
tricks to sabotage my campaign. Let me tell you why you have 
no
 chance in an election against me. For
example, in American presidential elections, the winner is usually determined
by one simple fact; the taller candidate wins. So, presto!” His avatar grew so
its hat was squashed by the ceiling. “I am now much taller than you. Game
over.”

“Oh, the game is over, that is true. There is not
going to be an election.”

“No?”

“No. I am the commander, and-”

“This is a 
totally

blatant attempt at voter suppression,” his avatar shrank back to its normal size.
“You are just afraid of what will happen. Joe. Power to the people!”

“Oh for- Ok, go ahead, then, do it. Call a snap
election right now. You can do that, right? Tell the crew the vote will be, um,
in one hour.”

“Deal!” Skippy’s avatar flashed out of existence,
and the bot rolled backwards. A moment later, the bot began its spiel again.
“Vote for Skippy! Skippy means progress! A vote for Skippy is a vote for 
Success
!”

Smythe arched an eyebrow. “Colonel, do you think
that is wise? You might be setting a bad precedent to indulge the beer can in
this nonsense.”

“Smythe, our crew is still new to being Pirates,
and we don’t know how much longer we’ll be out here. It would be useful to know
their opinion.”

“If you think so, Sir.”

“One thing I have learned is to never give an
order that won’t be obeyed. If this crew doesn’t want to follow me-”

“Us, Sir,” Smythe pointed out correctly. “Follow 
us
. The senior crew is loyal to you
because of our long experience under your leadership.”

“Point noted,” I agreed with a slow nod, Smythe
knew a vote of no confidence in me also applied to himself, and to Simms.

“This crew may already be having second thoughts
about defying UNEF and their home countries. The first phase of a long mission
is not the best time to ask an inexperienced team to evaluate their
leadership.”

“Colonel Smythe, I have faith this will turn out
well.”

He looked at me in that way he did on our first
mission together, before we rode a stolen RV then walked what seemed like
halfway across Newark to attack a group of Kristang scavengers who thought they
were alone on the planet. Like a schoolmaster questioning a dimwitted boy.
“Faith in the good judgment of the crew?”

“That too, I guess. I meant I have faith that
Skippy will be Skippy.”

“How so?”

“Wait, oh, I’d say ten minutes?”

 

My guess was off by two minutes. Captain Reed was
the first to contact me, eight minutes later. “Colonel, I thought you should
know that Skippy is trying to bribe me into voting for him.”

“Hmmm,” I winked at Smythe, who grinned and
nodded. Skippy was certainly being Skippy. “Did he offer anything good?”

“Sir?” Reed had expected me to be outraged, not
amused.

“Captain, if Skippy offered a good enough bribe, 
I
 might vote for him.”

“Oh,” she laughed. “He offered to double my rations,
I told him we already get more than enough to eat. Next he said I could join
his leadership team as ‘Grand Exalted Most Excellent Chief Pilot’, complete
with a gaudy new uniform he designed.”

“Was it a nice uniform?”

“Sir, it looked like something a drag queen would
describe as ‘
way
 over the top’. I’ve
never seen so much taffeta. Also, gold is not my best color. Then he announced
that when he is elected, every Friday will be Free Beer Day. Sir, do we have
that much beer aboard?”

“We don’t have 
any

beer,” I mused, trying to remember the list Simms reviewed with me. Luxury
items had not yet been loaded aboard the ship when UNEF tried what Skippy
described as the ‘whacky stunt’ of seizing control of the ship. As far as I
knew, the entire supply of alcohol aboard consisted of two bottles of champagne
and one bottle of red wine. Maybe the crew had secret stashes tucked away, but
it could not amount to much.

“So that little fucker lied to me, 
again
,” Reed did not sound like she was
firmly in the Vote For Skippy camp.

“Captain, I am sure the beer can would explain his
statement was merely a campaign promise, not to be taken literally. Free beer
must be part of his ‘vision’ for leadership or something.” My phone beeped with
four incoming calls. “Reed, I have other calls.”

“Sir, you have nothing to worry about. Skippy
wrote a campaign song, and he insisted on singing all four verses to me. I’d
vote against him just for that.”

 

Fifty something minutes later, I called the beer
can. “Oh, 
Skiiiiiiippy
? Do you have the
election results yet?”

“Um, still have data coming in from outlying
precincts, Joe,” he muttered.

“Outlying? The ship isn’t that big. Come on, Your
Lordship, give me the bad news. When will you be moving into my office?”

“Why would I- Oh, yeah. Yes! Good point,” he was
much more cheery. “You’d better start packing your things, Joey, because the
election was a 
landslide
.”

“That is fascinating. Hey, to show you that I am
not a sore loser, how about we get the entire crew together in the galley, and
confirm the results by voice vote?”

“Um, I am afraid that would not be a good idea,
Joe. I am sad to report there was serious, 
serious

fraud in the voting.”

“Interesting. Like what?”

“Like, I did not get a single vote! This is an
outrage! I demand an investigation.”

“Uh huh. Would you like a recount?”

“Already did that, Joe,” he grumbled. “One guy
said he would not vote for me if I was the last sentient being in the universe.
That was one of the 
nicer
 comments I
got from the crew. What a bunch of jerks. Stupid monkeys. This is 
so
 unfair.”

“Clearly the only reason you lost is that monkeys
are unforgivably stupid. Your life is a shocking tragedy of insults against
your greatness, Skippy. Maybe the universe simply hates you.”

“Oh, shut up.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY EIGHT

 

Skippy’s magical little elfbots had been
performing maintenance work while we investigated the Elder site, and the 
Flying Dutchman
 was as ready for battle
as she was going to be. The good news is, we knew the flightplan of the two
target ships.

The bad news is, we still had no idea how we could
kill those ships.

The good news is, we wouldn’t risk the 
Dutchman
 in battle until we planted a
good cover story in a relay station.

The bad news is, we did not have a cover story
that sounded like something the Maxolhx would believe.

So, everything was normal aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
.

At least, we did not have a plausible cover story,
until I was working in the hydroponics gardens and one of the grow lights was
going bad. The incident with the insane AI had left me with a headache so the
last thing I needed was a bright light flashing in my face. It flickered
annoyingly and sometimes flared to full brightness, then nearly off, then back
to flickering. After ignoring it, I paid attention when it came on full
brightness and then went out completely. Putting aside the arugula I was
harvesting, I climbed up to remove the bulb and swapped it for a new one.
Looking at the old bulb, I wondered if Skippy’s magical elfbots could fix it,
or if it was permanently broken and-

O.M.G.

A thought smacked me in the face so hard I
actually stepped backward, bumping into a table and nearly dropping the grow
light bulb.

That bulb was 
broken
.

The light hadn’t gone out merely because it was
dormant, the thing was 
busted
.

Dropping the vegetables in the harvest bin, I
fairly ran to my office. “Oh, Skiiiipeeee,” I called out, the way you summon a
dog with a biscuit.

“Hey, Joey,” his avatar gave me a mock exaggerated
salute. “What will you waste my time with now?”

“Not a waste at all, Skippy-O. I am about to tell
you the best idea I ever had. In fact, it may be,” I sucked in a breath for
effect and spoke in a whisper. “The greatest idea 
of. All. Time
.”

The avatar crossed its arms, unconvinced. “That is
an outrageous claim, Joe. You better have one hell of an idea.”

“I do, I do. We need a cover story for why those
ships could not return to base, right? A story that explains not only why those
ships disappeared after transmitting their report to the relay station, and
also explains why the Maxolhx should not be concerned about loss of those
ships, and does not make them suspicious at all about Earth being involved?”

“Uh huh, yeah. If you have a solution to that
problem, it might be a candidate for 
your

best idea. I do not think that would qualify as the best idea of all time. You
need to-”

“You haven’t heard it yet, Skippy.”

“Damn, you are wiggling in your chair like a
little girl who just heard she’s getting a pony for her birthday. This idea has
got you super excited.”

“It does. We also have another, longer-term
problem. Sixty years from now, aliens will discover Earth’s local wormhole is
 not
 dormant, and they will want to
investigate that strange behavior.”

“Yes, so? If your great idea is to remind me of
stuff I already-”

“What if we could solve both problems at the same
time?”

Skippy must have been surprised by my question,
because he didn’t speak for five seconds, which is an eternity in Skippytime.
“Um, I did not know you were even thinking about how to solve the problem of
aliens coming to Earth in sixty years. We discussed this, Joe. Aliens learning
that wormhole isn’t really dormant is not actually a problem, it is a 
fact
. The photons from the gamma rays
that wormhole creates, 
created
, are
spreading outward and there is nothing anyone can do about them.”

“Yup. I agree.”

There was another pause, then, “Joe, I am going to
shut up now and listen to your idea. If you have a way to make the Maxolhx
think the loss of their ships is not anything worth investigating, 
and
 a way to stop aliens from coming to
Earth sixty years from now, I will truly be astonished. No, more than
astonished. If you can do that, then all the spacefaring species of this galaxy
should surrender to monkeys right now. However,” he waggled a finger at me.

“Yeah, I know, you will mock me mercilessly if my
idea is stupid, blah blah blah. Sit back and prepare to be dazzled. Hey, um,
when I do blow your mind, don’t lose containment, Ok?”

“Deal. I am equally prepared to be dazzled or
disappointed. Kinda leaning toward crushing disappointment, if you must know.”

“Outstanding. When you open and close the wormhole
near Earth, it doesn’t act like a normal wormhole emerging and closing, right?”

“Correct. A normal wormhole is actually ‘on’ all
the time, it only moves its emergence point around within the Figure-8 of its
programmed pattern. Shutting down and reactivating the wormhole near Earth
creates a greater disruption of local spacetime, it generates more intense
radiation, and the radiation is of a different spectrum. Why do you ask?”

“That radiation is not something anyone has seen
in this galaxy before you screwed with that wormhole, is it?”

“Not quite. I am 
terribly
 sorry to disappoint you, but that type of radiation 
is
 familiar to all starfaring species,
because it happens during every wormhole shift.”

“Bonus! That is exactly what I was hoping for.”

“I must admit I am totally lost, Joe.”

“Try to keep up, beer can. The details of how
wormhole shifts work and why they happen are still a mystery to you-”

“Correct. By the way, thank you for reminding me
how much I don’t know about-”

“You mentioned to me one time that you thought
shifts happen when wormholes drift to the edge of the local network boundary,
as they revolve around the center of the galaxy, or between force lines or some
sciency bullshit like that?”

“That is a guess. It’s a good guess, based on what
I know.”

“Do the senior species have any theories about wormhole
shifts?”

“Um, yes,” he sniffed defensively. “They both
speculate around the same concepts. If you are saying I got 
my
 ideas from the Rindhalu or-”

“Never said anything like that, Skippy. We know
those two Maxolhx ships are going to the Earth end of that wormhole, to
investigate it. They will probably go to the last location it was active?”

“That makes sense, yes.”

“Outstanding. Ok, here’s the cover story you will
plant in that fake report: those Maxolhx ships investigated the Earth end of
the wormhole, and they discovered its odd behavior is because it is not
dormant, it is 
broken
. That wormhole
is right on the boundary of two local networks, and the two ends of that
wormhole can’t establish a solid connection with each other. That explains why
it is acting strangely, without needing any suspicious involvement by a
mysterious force. When those Maxolhx ships went to examine the wormhole, they
got too close. When it tried to open, the spacetime disruption was so severe,
it destroyed one of those ships, and badly damaged the other. That explains why
the loss of those ships was not due to enemy action. It explains why only one
ship survived to contact a data relay station on the way back, and why that one
surviving ship never returned to base; it was so badly damaged, it blew up
after it transmitted its report to the relay station. It also explains why that
one surviving ship changed course and contacted an automated relay station
inside Maxolhx space, instead of a manned relay station on the border of their
territory. Because it was badly damaged, it was unable to return home along the
planned course. Ooh, and,” another thought just hit me, “that explains why that
ship didn’t contact an allied species on the way home. The ship was vulnerable
and the crew feared the Thuranin or Bosphuraq would try to capture their ship
rather than helping. The Maxolhx will not be suspicious of why those ships were
lost, they were lost due to an 
accident
.
No need for the rotten kitties to send another group of ships to Earth.”

“Hmm. Except, the odd and dangerous behavior of
that wormhole means they will want to examine that wormhole more closely, this
time by ships that remain a safe distance away,” Skippy said softly, like he
didn’t want to harsh my buzz.

“They will want to investigate
 a
 wormhole that is acting oddly, yes, but they will not need to
fly all the way to Earth to do that. Are there any other wormholes in the local
sector controlled by the Maxolhx coalition, that also were dormant and became
active in the same shift that woke up Earth’s wormhole?”

“Yes, there are seven of them, plus another three
just outside the sector.”

“Great. Before we go back to Earth, we need you to
screw with at least one of those wormholes, to make them do what the wormhole
near Earth does. You should do that with 
two

other wormholes, to give the Maxolhx plenty of opportunity to investigate funky
wormholes right in their own backyard. They won’t need to come to Earth at all.
And,
 AND
,” I pumped a fist in the
air, “that solves our 
other
 problem,
you understand that, right? When the gamma rays from Earth’s wormhole are
detected sixty years from now, the aliens will just shrug and ignore it because
they
 think
 they already know what is
going on there, and they won’t care. Cool, huh?”

Silence.

“Uh, hey, Skippy?”

More silence.

“Come on, man, you’re scaring me.”

“Joe,” he finally spoke.

“Yes?”

“Holy. Fucking. 
SHIT!
 I never thought this would happen. Joe, you actually blew my
mind. Seriously, my higher-order consciousness froze up for a moment. Everything
you said was true. That might 
indeed
 be.
The. Single. Greatest. Idea. 
EV-ER
! You
have solved a problem I thought was unsolvable. The universe is weeping in
despair, because it knows it will never defeat you ignorant monkeys. Joe,” his
avatar raised its arms and bowed from the waist to me. “I bow to the master.”

“Wow,” that was totally unexpected. “Thank you,
Skippy.”

“Before you pop the champagne, you realize the
timing of this will be tricky?”

“Yup. If the fake report you load into the relay
station says the wormhole hiccupped and hit those Maxolhx ships, like, next
Thursday, then we need to go back to the wormhole and make it do something
funky next Thursday. That way, the alien telescopes or whatever will see
exactly what they expect to see sixty years from next Thursday. You can do
that?”

“Yes. Damn, Joe, you really 
did
 think of everything this time. It is actually a privilege to
see a monkey mind in action.”

“If anyone asks, you will deny saying that I am
the master?”

“Dude, please. I won’t need to deny it. As if
anyone would think 
you
 are the master
of-”

“Uh huh, great. What I need you to do is back me
up when we get back to Earth. The authorities there need to know I am not just
a reckless screw-up.”

“I got your back, homeboy.” His avatar held up a
tiny fist, and I bumped it. “You do realize the problem with your idea?”

“Yeah,” my shoulders slumped. “The 
Dutchman
 for sure has to survive battle
with the target ships, or we will never be able to make the Earth wormhole act
crazy at the proper time, months from now.”

“Yup, that’s the problem. You have a solution for
that?”

“No.”

“Then the ‘Greatest Idea Ever’,” he made air
quotes with his fingers, “is really nothing but a big waste of time, huh?”

“Your steadfast support is an 
endless
 source of comfort to me, Skippy. I am sorry to disappoint
you that I have not yet solved every single problem in the universe.”

 
“Oh, Joe,”
he said in a soothing tone. “You could never disappoint 
me
.”

That comment surprised me, it sounded like
something a mother says to her child. Maybe trying to understand the concept
and value of empathy really was making Skippy more sensitive. In our ultra-tense
situation, I appreciated words of encouragement. “Thank you, that was nice to
hear. I know that we have your support, no matter what happens.”

“Oh. I meant there is nothing any of you monkeys
could do that would disappoint me, because my expectations of you are already
lower than you can possibly imagine. Seriously, take last night as an example.
You stumbled out of bed at 0247 Hours, cracked your head on the overhead
cabinet 
again
, managed to pee without
getting any on the floor which is a freakin’ 
miracle
, picked a huge booger out of your nose and smeared it on
your face because you were still half-asleep, then fell asleep with your feet
on the pillow and your booger-smeared face at the bottom of the bed. For your
species, that counts as a 
WIN
, baby!”

“Oh, shut up,” I snapped at him, while a part of
my brain rejoiced because the Mystery of the Morning Booger had been solved.
Also, it explained why I had woken up with my feet on the pillow. “All right,
go away while I try to think of a way to build a time machine or something.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY NINE

 

“Skippy,” I asked the next morning, after I got
seven solid hours of rack time. My rack time should have been eight hours, but
my traitorous brain woke me up because it had a question and needed the answer
right away. My headache was mostly gone, as reminders of my encounter with an
insanely murderous Elder AI, I had burst blood vessels in my eyes, a persistent
ringing in one ear and a blinking yellow icon on a status display, showing we
had lost yet another precious dropship. “Do you-”

“Joe, if this is about that insane AI, could we
please not talk about it until I have time to process? I barely have a
high-level analysis of the data and I do know what I am seeing. It is very
confusing.”

“Uh, sure thing, Skippy, take all the time you
need,” I lied, because I needed answers pronto. He was right, my Greatest Idea
Of All Time was pretty much worthless without a way to actually do something
with it. “Hey, another subject. The comm node we found is busted or offline or
whatever, but do the other two artifacts work? It sure would be great to have
another wormhole controller.”

 
“Why?” He
asked, surprised at my question. “The one we had before is working perfectly,
we do not particularly need a spare.”

“We don’t need a spare aboard the 
Dutchman
,” I agreed and did not explain
further. “The zero-point energy generator power tap thingy, that works also?”

“It is old and degraded but yes, it works. Why? We
can’t- Ooh! Ooh! Ooh! Maybe I 
am

capable of reliably thinking up monkey-brain ideas. I believe I know what you
are thinking, and it won’t work.”

Crap. If he really did know what I was thinking,
we were in trouble. “Like what?”

“Your idea is for us to use the power tap to lure
those Maxolhx ships. We drop it in space somewhere, generating energy from
nothing, and the Maxolhx get so excited they rush in to capture it.
Forgetaboutit, smart guy.”

“I-”

He ignored me. “That power tap is so degraded that
is barely generates enough energy to- You know what, I’ll be precise this time.
It generates less than half a megawatt per hour. Such a puny power output will
not be very tempting to the Maxolhx. Besides, we already discarded the idea of
luring in those ships, because one of the ships would hang back and even if it
were by some miracle successful, we would only destroy one ship.”

“We did discard that idea, Skippy. That is not
what I want the power tap for.”

“Damn it. Ok, what is your moronic idea?” 

“It is possible for you to program a wormhole
controller so it acts on a delay?”

“A delay?”

“Yeah, like, on Tuesday you program it to screw
with a wormhole, but it doesn’t do anything for, oh, say, six months?”

“Six 
months
?
No, dumdum. Six 
hours
, maybe.”

“Ayuh, yup, the module will run out of power and
go inert. What if we connect the wormhole controller to the power tap thing?
Would that work?”

“Um, hmm, let me think about that. The initial
surge of energy to connect the module to the wormhole far exceeds the energy
level the power tap is capable of, but after that, yes, the power tap could
keep the module’s connection to higher spacetime active for years, if
necessary. Why do you want- Oh! Are you thinking I could program our backup
wormhole controller module, so the 
Dutchman

could go home if something bad happens to me?”

“Nope. If something that bad happens to you, there
will be no point to going home.”

“Then what-”

“This will go a lot faster if I talk and you stop
making stupid guesses.”

“Ohhhhhkaaaaaay,” he pouted. “That is payback for
all the times I have told you the same thing. Go ahead, explain your idea,
please.”

“A major problem with attacking those target ships
is the risk the 
Dutchman
 will be
disabled or destroyed. If that happens, we won’t be available to make the
wormhole near Earth act crazy around the time those Maxolhx ships would arrive
there. I want to go to that wormhole, drop off the power tap and controller
module, with the module programmed to make the wormhole act crazy at the proper
future date. That way, if the 
Dutchman

is destroyed in battle with the target ships, all the evidence will point to
our cover story being accurate, including the timing of events.”

“Huh.”

“Was that a ‘huh’ like ‘huh Joe had a good idea’,
or like ‘huh I am so going to enjoy busting his balls again’?”

“Um, the first one, much as I hate to say it. Your
plan will work. The output of the power tap is wimpy, but plenty enough to keep
the controller module on a trickle charge if the module only gets used once a
month. Ok, so you have solved yet another of the impossible problems we are
faced with. Great.”

That didn’t sound right. He should either have
been pumped that we had a plan, or he should have been irritated that he hadn’t
thought of the idea. “Hey, Skippy,” I pressed the button to close my office
door. “Are you Ok?”

“Sure, yeah, fine,” he sighed.

Even for a guy, I can sometimes be clueless about
what other people are feeling. That time, I was fairly sure I knew what was
bothering him. “Skippy, I know the evidence you found about two Elder ships
fighting each other has got you upset-”

“Upset? 
Upset
?”
He screeched. “When you butcher a song with your awful singing voice on karaoke
night, 
that
 gets me ‘upset’. Knowing
that the Elders fought each other, 
killed

each other, has completely destroyed everything I thought I knew about myself
and my origins and my place in the universe, and now I am questioning-”

“Uh huh, yup. You are having an existential
crisis,” I was guessing what the word ‘existential’ really meant. “Blah blah
blah. Listen, have you-”

“Blah blah

blah
?” He gasped. “I am in the worst crisis of my long life, and you mock
me?” He was shaken. “Joe,” he was almost sobbing, “I thought our friendship was
the one thing I could finally count on, but now-”

“You 
can

count on our friendship, that is why I am trying to tell you, that maybe you
don’t need to question everything you thought you knew about the revered
Elders.”

“This had better be 
damned
 good, homeboy, because I am seriously pissed at you right
now.”

“It is better than good, Skippy, and it shows you
are not the only being in the universe who can think logically. This is
something 
you
 should have thought of,
you knucklehead. Listen, we know Elder AIs have gone rogue or crazy or
whatever-”

“We know 
one

Elder AI has gone rogue; the one on Newark.”

“Dude, really? You think in the long history since
the Elders started building AIs, the one we found on Newark was the only one to
go rogue? Maybe that insane murderous one you just found went rogue also.”

“Um, Ok, probably more than one Elder AI has gone
rogue,” he conceded.

“You suspect 
all

Elder AIs have computer worms inside them, as a safety mechanism, to protect
the galaxy in case one of them goes rogue, right?”

“Yeah, so?”

“Oh, man, I can’t believe I have to explain this
to you. Skippy, what if those ships did not destroy each other because the 
Elders
 were fighting? What if the AI in
control of one ship went rogue and attacked the other ship?”

“Um-” That was all he said for an uncomfortably
long moment.

“Hey, Skippy?” I finally prodded him.

“Processing.”

He had never said that before and it bothered me.
His brain was a processor, and, Ok, I guess human brains could be described as
a sort of processor also. Although Skippy would certainly not describe 
my
 brain as any sort of information
processing tool. After sitting quietly while waiting for him to reply, I got
worried. “Hey, Nagatha, what’s going on with Skippy?”

His Awesomeness could block Nagatha’s access to
his internal workings, or he 
thought

he could do that. Anyway, my hope was that whatever Skippy was doing inside is
beer can’s shiny exterior, he wasn’t paying attention to our ship’s AI.
“Joseph,” Nagatha replied after a very slight hesitation. “Skippy is thinking
intently, why do you ask?”

“He’s not like, stuck in a loop or something bad
like that?”

“No dear,” she laughed softly. “When he said
‘processing’ he meant that he is analyzing your question. Over-analyzing, to be
accurate.”

“Oh, great,” I groaned. I imagined a female
version of Skippy curled up on a couch with a quart of ice cream, talking on
the phone with her friends about a boy and attempting to analyze what the guy 
really
 meant when he said this or that.
My sister used to do that for hours and it drove me crazy. “So, he 
is
 stuck in a loop.”

“No,” Nagatha corrected me. “However, the idea
that an Elder AI could have gone rogue and killed its masters is very
disturbing to Skippy, and to myself also. He needs time to determine whether
your theory could plausibly be correct, and to understand his own feelings if
he accepts your theory is possible.”

Glancing at the clock on my laptop, I judged more
than a minute had passed since Skippy last spoke. A minute in meatsack time was
an eternity in Skippy time. “How much more time do you think he needs?”

“Joseph,” she chided me gently, “how much time
would 
you
 need, if someone told you a
truly shocking idea that made you question your core beliefs about yourself and
your origins?”

“Ah, OK, yeah, that could take a while,” I
admitted. Way back when the Ruhar raided Earth and one of their dropships
crashed into a potato field outside my hometown, I had put aside my need to
deal with the new reality and concentrated on doing something, anything useful.
After the Kristang chased the Ruhar away, I was serving with the Maine National
Guard and was so busy dealing with the aftereffects of the raid like the total
lack of electric power, I mostly didn’t have time to think about what it meant
to know humanity was not alone in the universe. And that the universe was a
hostile place.

But sometimes, in my bunk after a long day, sleep
would not come quickly no matter how tired I was. At those times, I did think
about what it all meant, and what my life would be like. That was before I
heard about the formation of the United Nations Expeditionary Force, and that I
was being shipped offworld to fight. I lay awake at night, knowing life would
never get back to what used to be ‘normal’, even if electricity was restored
and the economy recovered. Even in the National Guard, I was often hungry
because there wasn’t enough food to go around, and I worried what I would do if
the Army decided they didn’t need another Specialist. My major motivation for
signing up in the first place was to get money for college, although even
before Columbus Day I had absolutely no idea what I wanted to do with my life.
After Columbus Day, I had no idea what I 
could

do with my life.

So, yeah, I understood why Skippy needed some time
to deal with my idea that maybe an Elder AI had not only gone rogue long after
the Elders left the galaxy, it had killed Elders.

“Jooooooooe,” he let out a long breath. “You just 
love
 screwing with me, don’t you?”

“Ayuh, yeah, but that isn’t why I mentioned it.
Sorry if I just dumped that on you, I didn’t know of an easy way to say it.”
Also, I did not say, I thought the incomparable genius of Skippy the
Magnificent should have been able to put two and two together, to consider
maybe an AI had been involved. If the beer was as smart as he is fond of
telling everyone, the idea should have popped into his head before it popped
into mine. “So, what do you think?”

“It 
is

possible, I must agree. On a personal level, the notion that an AI could have
killed Elders is deeply troubling, however it is less troubling than the idea
that the Elders themselves could have been violent. Also, unfortunate incidents
with rogue AIs could explain why the Elders programmed killer worms into their
AIs as a safety precaution.”

“You feel better now?”

“I do. Joe, thank you. When you interrupted my
self-indulgent and self-destructive moping, I was pissed that you were being so
heartless. Now I understand you were actually helping, out of concern for me as
a friend.”

“Ayuh,” I agreed. “And only a little bit because
it is so fun to screw with you.”

“Asshole.”

“Payback’s a bitch, isn’t it?”

“It is. Speaking of payback, you just wait
until-t”

“Uh huh, whatever. Do we have time to fly back to the
wormhole near Earth, before we intercept the target ships?”

“Oh, sure, no problemo, Joe, we have plenty of
time. There is only one remaining problem.”

“Crap. What is that?” I did not need any more
problems.

“We left Earth with an absolutely impossible,
unsolvable task. Instead of falling into crushing despair, you kept working on
it. You nibbled away at the problem piece by piece. We got a Maxolhx dropship,
then a set of blank pixies and learned the exact flight path and schedule of
the target ships. You then dreamed up a cover story so ingenious that I am
proud to be part of your crew, a cover story that not only will explain what
happened to the targets ships, it also will explain why aliens should ignore the
gamma rays they will detect sixty years from now. That is something I never
thought would or even 
could
 happen.
And now, in another brilliant stroke of monkey-brain thinking, you have solved
the problem of how to make the wormhole near Earth act according to the cover
story, whether the 
Dutchman
 is
available at that time or not. So, that leaves only one teensy-weensy final
problem. You know what I am talking about?”

“Yeah, shit. We, meaning 
I
, still do not have any idea how to destroy those target ships.”

“Egg-
zactly
.
What are you going to do about that?”

“Working on it,” I pressed the button to open my
office door, and waved my hand through his avatar.

“Hey!” He protested.

“Go away,” I muttered. “I need to think.”

 

 

We flew to the far end of Earth’s wormhole, and lingered
there for two days while Skippy conducted experiments. First, he tested the new
wormhole controller module to be sure it could connect to the network, although
of course the magic of Skippy was needed to establish the initial connection. Then
he checked that the power tap could provide enough power on a continuous basis
to keep the module functional, and he was satisfied that even in its degraded
condition, the power tap would provide a steady trickle of energy for the next
fourteen thousand years.

I figured that was about thirteen thousand, nine
hundred and ninety nine more years than we needed, so that made me happy.

Next, he programmed the module to awaken the
dormant wormhole and make it open, but make it open in a chaotic, dangerous way.
We parked the ship a safe ten lightminutes away and waited for the fireworks,
which exceeded even Skippy’s expectations. “Holeeeee shit, Joe,” he gasped as
we watched the eruption of twisted spacetime as the event horizons tried to
connect and failed in spectacular fashion. “Whoa, I did not expect that. Good
thing you insisted we test the effect. Wow!”

“What happened?”

“The short answer is I programmed the module to
make the wormhole begin to open, then shut immediately in the middle of its
sequence. That caused a build-up of power that needed to go somewhere.
Normally, it would bleed off in other dimensions, but then the module made the
wormhole open again. The second time, the event horizons were compressed and
slightly out of phase with each other, so when that caused the wormhole to
collapse, the result was what you saw; a powerful jet of twisted spacetime.
Joe, if those Maxolhx ships really had been near the wormhole to observe it,
they would have been destroyed or damaged exactly like your cover story will
report. 
Day-umm
!”

“Ayuh, that is good news. Plus, you know, now it
won’t look suspicious that the first time the wormhole erupts like that is when
the Maxolhx are here, because it has already done it. Can you program the
module to do that again in, like, two months? Make it a lot less powerful the
next time.”

He was puzzled. “Those targets ships will not
reach the Earth end of the wormhole in two months, Joe. They need a lot longer
than that to get there, traveling the long way.”

“I know that. Having the wormhole erupt multiple
times will help sell the story that the thing is broken, and the Maxolhx just
had epically bad luck to get in the way.”

“Ah, got it. Finally, I will program it to erupt a
third time, when the cover story says they are supposedly at the Earth end.
Good idea, Joe. Hey, you know what? This mission has been fun. I love screwing
with wormholes!”

“Cool, glad you are happy. The module, power tap,
neither of them were damaged?”

“No, although it is a good thing we positioned the
assembly as far away as we did.”

 

 

We had a Maxolhx dropship, so we could plant a
cover story in a relay station. We had pixies to communicate with and be
granted access to a relay station so we could plant our cover story. We had a
great, like, 
epic
 cover story that
would ensure Earth would be free from aliens for the next couple hundred years.
We had Earth’s wormhole on a timer to sell the cover story that a broken
wormhole had destroyed or damaged the Maxolhx ships. We knew the exact route
the target ships planned to use toward Earth, including pretty accurate timing
until they went through the last wormhole. We knew, or Skippy was very
confident, that the target ships would be sticking closely to their planned
schedule, because they would be passing through territory controlled by the Rindhalu
coalition and did not want to provoke any dangerous incidents. The planned
schedule had been shared with the Rindhalu, who had not passed the info down
their clients, so we could not have gotten the schedule from the Ruhar or
Jeraptha or some source much easier than stealing pixies. Knowing that made me
feel better, if we had gone through all the risk and effort to break into the
pixie factory, and then learned the info we needed was available on the Ruhar
version of Instagram, I would have been 
pissed
.

So, we had a lot of assets.

We still did not have a plan for how our
broken-down little former star carrier could destroy two powerful
senior-species warships.

Other than that, things were going just 
great
.

We, and by ‘we’ I mean every sentient being aboard
the ship other than Skippy and Nagatha, had considered hundreds of plans, and
none of them would work. Nagatha shot down some of our ideas before we could
embarrass ourselves by asking Skippy; she knew enough about physics and the
capabilities of Maxolhx ships to tell us why our ignorant notions were not
practical. Avoiding yet another round of mockery from Skippy was good, still it
somehow felt even more humiliating for Nagatha to kindly and gently but with a
hint of mirth inform us over and over why one idea after another was not going
to work. No offense to our ship’s resident AI, it felt like getting soundly
beaten by a Triple-A baseball team rather than suffering an understandable defeat
to a major-league club. Nagatha was super smart compared to any human, maybe
compared to all of humanity combined. However, she was not Skippy, and in some
cases, she thought an idea might have enough merit to pass it along to His
Magnificence. Every time that happened, he mocked both us monkeys and Nagatha,
which did not endear him to the crew. Mocking us was Ok, we were used to it.
Mocking the AI he had unintentionally created was not cool, and he caught hell
from the crew for being especially assholeish to Nagatha, which made him
peevish and uncooperative.

Like I said, things were going just great. We still
had plenty of time before the target ships transited through the last wormhole
in Ruhar space and began their long, lonely journey to the wormhole near Earth.
We knew from their secret orders that the ships were instructed to at least
pass through humanity’s home star system, to see what kind of mischief the
Kristang there had gotten into. Interestingly, those ships had been instructed
not to reveal their presence to beings on Earth, Skippy thought that order was
for the purpose of ensuring the ships did not interfere with any evidence of
bad behavior by the Kristang. If the ships detected the Kristang had violated
any of The Rules, their government would pass the data to the Rindhalu along
with an invitation for a joint investigation.

On their way to the last wormhole in Ruhar space,
the ships had a strict schedule. After transiting through that wormhole, the
task force commander had freedom to adjust course for refueling or to explore
as she saw fit, within reason. For our purpose of destroying those ships, we
needed to hit them before they plunged through that last wormhole, and we lost
advanced knowledge of where and when they would be.

Technically, we did not have almost twenty days to
act. The beat-up 
Flying Dutchman

could not travel as quickly as the high-tech Maxolhx ships, so we had to decide
where to attack them and take a wormhole short cut to get there. Without having
a plan for how to attack those ships, we could not decide where to attempt
intercepting them.

For my part, I tried everything that had worked
for me in past to dream up a good plan. This time, nothing worked. Lifting
weights or running in the gym, taking a shift in the galley, practicing flight
maneuvers in a simulator or a real dropship while the ship recharged for a
jump, none of those trusty techniques provided inspiration for a plan.

We were running out of time. Each morning, Skippy
woke me up by cheerily informing me how few days we had remaining. He took
special glee in telling me about prime ambush spots the target ships had flown
past, reducing our options further.

Since my stupid brain was not doing anything
useful, I went to my office to grind my way through a task I hated; writing
mission summary reports. Why the Army required me to document everything we
did, significant or not, I did not understand. Whenever we returned to Earth, I
was subjected to endless questions that would not have been necessary if the
officials would simply 
read the freakin’
report
. My reports were not the only source of information about our
activities, Simms and Smythe and every other officer aboard the ship had their
own reports to file, and many of the engineering team kept logs or diaries or
whatever you want to call them. Technically, we were renegade pirates so I did
not have to write reports, but since I was hoping to be reinstated, I followed
the regulations.

Because I like to think of myself as an honest
person, and because the Army and UNEF and whoever would catch me if I fudged or
even glossed over the harsh truth, and mostly because Skippy would gleefully
rat me out anyway, I stuck as close to the truth as I could recall in my
reports. That meant being brutally honest about the many things did not work as
well as the rare things that went according to plan. It also meant I explained
in detail why we had to do things a certain way, because I knew the audience on
Earth would second-guess every decision I made. Like, for example, I explained
why, to make a cavern we could jump a dropship into with relative safety, we
had to-

“
Holy

shit,” I breathed, gasping so hard I kind of choked. “Skippy!”

“Oh,” his avatar was groaning while it glowed into
life. “What is it this time? I have stopped eavesdropping on your conversations
with Nagatha, because I prefer to be surprised- when I say ‘surprised’ I mean
‘amused’- by whatever idiotic, ignorant and blatantly uninformed idea you wish
to waste my time with. Really, Joe, you and your barrel of monkeys are not even
putting effort into dreaming up a plan to entertain me, your ideas are 
so
 lame. It feels like you have given up
and are just phoning it in-”

“Uh huh, yeah, monkeys are worthless blah blah
blah. Listen-”

“You 
dare

interrupt me,” his avatar jammed its tiny hands on its hips in indignation.
“Yet all you do is agree that your species is so dumb that-”

“I’ll take a raincheck on your scorn, Ok? You need
to hear this, 
this
 plan will work.”

“
Riiiiiiight
.”
He winked and gave me an ironic thumbs up. “Your confidence is based on the
hundreds of other failed ideas you also thought would work?”

“Those ideas had the fatal flaw of being thought
up by a monkey. This one is 
your

idea, Oh Magnificent One.”

“Um, what?” He sputtered. “When did 
I
 gave you an idea? If I did, then of
course it is a pure stroke of genius, so I can’t-”

“You didn’t exactly give this idea to me, it is more
like something you warned me never, ever to do.”

“Huh. I warned you 
not
 to do whatever this is, yet you now think it is a great idea?”

“Yup.” I picked up a tennis ball, tossed it to
bounce off the wall and right through his avatar on the desk back to me. He 
hated
 when I did that, it was my way of
getting back at him for being rude to Nagatha. “It 
is
 a great idea.”

“Ok,” he crossed his arms. “
This
 I have to hear.”

 

Five minutes later, his avatar was looking more
scared than merely skeptical. “Joe, there is a very good reason I warned you
against ever even 
thinking 
about
trying a whacky stunt like this.”

“Uh huh. So, we shouldn’t do it?”

“No! Yes. Oh, what the hell,” he threw up his
arms, “why not? I am warning you,” he wagged a finger at me, “if this blows up
in our faces, it will be all 
your

fault.”

“I’m good with that, Skippy. Hey, do you want to
yell at me now for being a complete and utter moron?”

“Why would I do that? It is so much more fun to
yell at you 
after
 a disaster, when
you are already hating yourself for being the biggest idiot who ever lived.”

“True, and that is 
so
 much more rewarding for me too. But, if this stunt does fail, it
will fail in spectacular fashion, and I won’t be around for you to yell at.”

“Oooh, good point,” he pondered with his chin in
one hand. “Ok, give me a moment, I’m thinking up some particularly juicy
insults.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTY

 

Deciding what data to put in the fake report had
been kind of a chicken-and-egg problem. It was not practical for us to hang
around a data relay station until the date when the lone, damaged Maxolhx ship
supposedly stopped there on its way back from Earth. Plus, we needed to make
the Earth wormhole have a violent reaction on a date that matched when that
‘accident’ was recorded in our fake report. Finding an extra wormhole
controller, and a super-duper Elder battery to power it, had solved the problem
of making the wormhole erupt on the date in the fake report, and the 
Flying Dutchman
 did not have to be there
or even exist at that time. If our Frankenship was destroyed in the coming
battle, our mission would still be successful and Earth would be safe, although
the people of our home planet would not know that. All we needed to do was
upload the cover story report to a relay station, on a timer to be released at
a time when a damaged ship traveling back from Earth plausibly could have been
there. And then, you know, actually kill two massively powerful senior-species
warships.

 

We approached the chosen data relay station by
jumping in twenty lightminutes away, to scope out the place before committing
to action. Skippy made our jump signature look like a Maxolhx light cruiser, a
type of ship that often traveled alone. More importantly, light cruisers were
the favorite ship for clandestine missions, so it would not be surprising if we
had to jump away without contacting the relay station. That would not matter
anyway.

Except it did.

“Uh oh, Joe. We got a problem.”

“I do not like hearing about problems, Skippy.
Someday, I might shoot the messenger.”

“Not this time. There is a Maxolhx Fleet Auxiliary
ship parked at that relay station. My guess is the station is undergoing a
maintenance cycle, or an upgrade.”

“Shit! You didn’t know about this?”

“No, Joe,” he had gotten better at using sarcasm. “Shockingly,
I did not download every possible yottabyte of data about mundane details of
Maxolhx operations. I had to be specific with the data request back then,
dumdum.”

“Do you have any idea how long that ship will be
there?”

“Zero idea, Joe.
 

We are twenty lightminutes away, so that ship could have departed
already, or it might be there for another month. One thing is for certain; if
we hang around here for long without contacting the relay station, that will
look suspicious.”

“Crap! Ok, Ok, you’re right. Sami, I mean,” I
blushed, “Reed, Jump Option Charlie.”

We jumped away and I thumped a fist into my
forehead. Why could not one freakin’ thing 
ever

be simple for us? “This sucks.”

“Indeed it does, Joe,” Skippy agreed. “Time to put
your thinking cap on, again.”

“Sure, what the hell, why not? Uh, um, show me
that map of possible routes from Earth to the home base for those Maxolhx
ships. Not 
all
 possible routes, just
the ones a crippled ship might likely take.”

“This time, I might know what you are thinking,”
Skippy announced happily. “Unfortunately, it won’t work. The most likely routes
all go through this wormhole, here,” he highlighted that area on the display.
“From that wormhole, the data relay station we just tried to contact is the
only logical one for a crippled ship to contact. The other stations are too far
away.”

“Yeah, yeah, got that. Um, what if the ship did 
not
 go through that particular
wormhole?”

“Logically, the ship 
would
 have gone through that-”

“Indulge me, please. Pretend that wormhole doesn’t
exist.”

“Oh for- 
Ugh
.
Fine. Here, this is what the star map looks like, in an alternate universe
where that wormhole doesn’t exist and little Joey eats all his vegetables.”

“I always eat my vegetables.”

“Putting maple syrup on your Brussels sprouts so
you can eat them doesn’t count.”

“Maple syrup is delicious and loaded with
antioxidants, according to the Maple Syrup Council,” I added, arguing with him
on autopilot because I was studying the revised star map. “That route you have
highlighted in orange, it is the least-risky path a crippled ship might fly, if
the other wormhole wasn’t available?”

“Yes,” he sniffed. “Could I point out the teensy
weensy detail that the other wormhole
 is

available?”

“No, you may not.”

“
Ugh
.
This is the real world, Joe, without unicorns or Santa Claus. You are 
such
 a-”

“That thing you did to the other wormholes, where
you made them go crazy, you’re going to do the same thing to the wormhole you
say the crippled ship should logically go through.”

“Ok, um, can I ask why?”

“Because, that ship already got burned by the
wormhole near Earth acting strangely. The crew would not risk going through
another funky wormhole, they would fly around it.”

“Ok, Ok, hmmm, that make sense, damn it. Oooh, I
hate you 
so
 much.”

“Ayuh, can you do it?”

“Yeah, I can do that.”

“Outstanding.”

“Joe, to be clear, screwing with wormholes is what
got us into this mess. You are proposing that 
more
 screwing with wormholes is the answer?”

“Ayuh. Screwing with them in the right way, for
the right reason, is the answer.”

“Much as I hate to say it, I agree with you. Of
course, I agreed when you first suggested screwing with wormholes, and that was
a freakin’ disaster for you monkeys, so-”

“Yeah,” I was worried that my latest brilliant
idea might turn out to be brilliant only in the short term, and doom for
humanity in the long run. Unfortunately, as usual there wasn’t time to think
long and hard about it, without making the short-term problem worse. “By going
through the second-choice wormhole, what is the first relay station that ship
would encounter?”

“This one,” a blue light began blinking on the
display. “To anticipate your next question, it also is an 
automated
 relay station.”

“Nagatha, set course for that second-choice relay
station, please.”

“Yes, dear,” she responded cheerfully. “Should I
mention that Skippy will need to change the fake report, to match the revised
course the crippled ship supposedly flew?”

“No, you do not need to remind me,” Skippy
snapped. “I already did that.”

“Really?” Nagatha’s voice dripped with sarcasm. “I
looked at the report a moment ago, and it still showed-”

“I 
meant
,
I am doing it now,” the beer can grumbled.

“Of course, Skippy dear. We believe you.”

“Oh shut up.”

 

Planting the fake report was easier than
downloading the flightplans from the first relay station we boarded, we already
had a functional set of pixies that identified us as an authorized Maxolhx
destroyer. That particular destroyer was of course not anywhere near that relay
station, but Skippy would erase any trace of our presence. When I went aboard
the relay station, my mouth was not even dry as dust like the first time, which
demonstrated the confidence I had in our friendly local beer can. The whole
procedure took less than an hour, and we had a bit of luck; that relay station
had been upgraded four months before we arrived, and there was not another
upgrade or even an inspection scheduled for another seven years. That was
plenty of time for the station’s AI to deliver the cover story message, then
erase all trace that Skippy had ever hacked into it. We got the job done
quickly, and soon we jumped away to go screw with more wormholes to help sell
the cover story.

After that, my plan was to stop screwing around,
and go kill a pair of unsuspecting ships.

 

 

“Joe, I warned you never 
ever
 to do something like this,” Skippy protested.

“Uh huh, you might have mentioned that once or
twice or a million freakin’ times. Will you shut up about it, please? Will this
work or not?”

“I can confidently predict a solid, a 
solid
 shamybe. Well, maybe sort of a
soft and squishy shmaybe, if you prefer the truth. Kind of a shmaybe that was
once solid and had nice sharp edges, but is now worn away and falling apart
like a sad little bar of soap that has spent 
waaaay
 too much time sitting on a shelf in your shower while you
pleasure your-”

“Will you shut up about me in the shower?” I shot a
nervous glance to the new people in the CIC. “What does a soft and squishy
shmaybe translate to as a percentage?”

“It’s hard to say, Joe, 
duh
. If I could calculate the odds of success, or more likely the
odds of failure, I would have given you the number, even though it would mean
nothing to your tiny math-deficient brain.”

 

To make the plan work, I had to ask Skippy to
again do the thing that had gotten us in the mess in the first place; screw
with a wormhole. This time, he only needed to screw with it a little bit,
hardly noticeable. His manipulation of the wormhole could not be noticed at all
by the Maxolhx, or they would react and ruin the whole plan. He made a tiny
tweak to the wormhole’s operation, so that it emerged in a very specific place
and at a specific time. Stable Elder wormholes had some variability in their
timing and location, to avoid causing damage to the underlying spacetime, and
because of changes in their connections to the local network. We could not
allow any squishiness in the event horizon location or timing, we needed those
ships coming through that wormhole within one hundred twenty meters of the
target zone. We also needed the ships to be moving in a particular, predictable
direction. Skippy met the first requirement by directing the wormhole to emerge
where he wanted, and since that point was within the wormhole’s normal radius
of operation, the network complied without resistance. The second requirement
was accomplished by moving the emergence point on the far side, and realigning
its event horizon on a slightly different plane in relation to the disc of the
Milky Way galaxy. The Maxolhx ships had to maneuver before approaching the
event horizon, lining up perpendicular so they would be properly oriented when
they went through. That gave them the direction we desired when they popped
through the event horizon on our side, and their speed was limited to a range
allowed by the wormholes themselves. 

So, we had the target ships in a specific
location, moving in a specific direction, and at a speed Skippy could predict
within point nine kilometers per second. You might think my plan was to recycle
the trick we used against the Thuranin surveyor ship at the end of our second
mission. Like, we plant a cloud of stealthed missiles in front of the event
horizon, and nail the ships as they came through. Unfortunately, that trick
would not work against the Maxolhx ships, because the first ship through the
wormhole would alert the other ship about the attack, and at best we would
destroy only one ship. Also unfortunately, we 
could
 not do that, we weren’t capable of repeating that feat.
Although we left the Roach Motel with plenty of missiles scrounged from the
junkyard there, many of those missiles needed work to make them ready for
combat, and that required Skippy’s bots to take parts off some missiles to make
a smaller number flightworthy. To make the mini-missiles that carried the
microwormholes down to the pixie factory, he had to use parts from the good
missiles. Anyway, the bottom line is we did not have enough powerful
ship-killer missiles aboard to cause serious damage to a Maxolhx warship, and
certainly not to deal with two of those ships. Even if every missile we took
from the junkyard was intact and flightworthy, our opponents were supremely
powerful senior-species warships that could deflect the barrage, and the
Maxolhx would have a good chance to detect our missiles before they could
strike. Like any other ship, the Maxolhx craft suffered from being temporarily
blind after transiting an Elder wormhole, a fact that we were counting on.
However, because the Maxolhx had incredible technology that even Skippy
grudgingly described as ‘not insultingly crappy’, their sensors reset much
faster than most ships. Faster even than our own sensors, because the magic of
Skippy could not work miracles with our primitive Thuranin sensor gear. The
efficiency of Maxolhx sensors meant we could not count on relatively slow
missiles to reach their prey before the enemy detected them and their proximity
defenses blew them out of the sky. I had argued with Skippy about that point,
until he reminded me of the glaringly obvious fact that Maxolhx standard
procedure would not allow the second ship to come through the wormhole until
the first ship’s sensors and shields were fully active. Damn it! Having to be
certain of killing 
both
 ships made
our task enormously more complicated.

Another idea we discarded, this time before Skippy
had a chance to mock us, was to jump a pair of dropships on top of the targets,
the same way we eliminated the single Maxolhx ship in the Roach Motel. We
simply did not have enough jump coils to spare after our stunt at the pixie
factory. If we stripped coils out of the 
Dutchman

to outfit a single sacrificial dropship, our starship would not be able to jump
again. The trick of making a non-starship, like an expendable dropship, jump
took a lot of jump coils, a lot more than I expected. Skippy had explained the
problem was something like a minimum number of coils were required to create
the feedback resonance loop that tore a hole in spacetime, my eyes glazed over
at that point and I don’t remember much of what he said. He did say we could
use fewer coils if the dropship being jumped had a real drive control computer,
which was another thing not possible with the sparse equipment aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
.

Because we were desperate, I considered stripping
all the jump coils out of the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
, to put them into suicide
dropships. That would leave our weary old star carrier drifting dead in
interstellar space forever, but it would accomplish our mission of killing the
two target ships.

Unfortunately, Skippy had shot down that idea,
because it wouldn’t work. The Maxolhx ship we killed in the Roach Motel had its
jump drive shut down, because that crew had known any attempt to jump before
they reached the boundary would cause the Guardians to attack. The two target
ships we now wanted to destroy would have their jump drives active and warmed
up for an immediate jump away in case of trouble, and that squashed any hope we
could repeat the trick that had worked so well in the Roach Motel. Skippy
explained that active jump drive coils create a subtle, local distortion bubble
in spacetime even when they were not powered up enough to create a jump
wormhole. That distortion bubble made it impossible for Skippy to drop a ship
into the same spacetime occupied by the target ship, because the jump’s far
endpoint would slide off the bubble.

Crap. That had been my best idea. Until I realized
that the active jump drives of the two target ships represented not just a
problem, they were an 
opportunity
.

 

If your brain has blown a fuse trying to
understand all the ways we could 
not

destroy those two ships, welcome to the club. Our club meets the second Tuesday
of the month in the basement of St Rose’s Church, which is kind of a pain
because we have to move all the Bingo equipment, and they don’t let us drink.
We’re thinking of meeting instead at- Ok, enough of that, time to be serious.

“Forget the math, Skippy. Are you ready to do your
thing?”

“I was born ready, Joe. My concern is that we will
only have one shot at this. If anything goes wrong and this cockamamie scheme
fails, the Maxolhx will never allow themselves to be vulnerable in this fashion
again. Plus, they will send a full battlegroup to smash your home planet so
your Sun has a second asteroid belt.”

“Thank you 
so

much for the vivid image, Skippy, that helped tremendously.”

“I suspect you are being sarcastic, Joe. No
matter, if you are determined to go through with this ill-advised whacky stunt,
everything is in place and I am as ready as I can be, considering nothing like
this has ever been attempted before. Hey, if this does fail, at least you will
have the comfort of surprising the hell out of the haughty Maxolhx. Before, you
know, they turn their wrath on this ship and vaporize it.”

“This is not helping at-”

He interrupted me. “Three, two, one, wormhole is
opening! Aaaaand, 
precisely
 when and
where and with the exact alignment I specified. Please hold the applause, you
may marvel at my extreme awesomeness later, right now I have work to do.”

The work Skippy needed to do right then was simply
to wait. You know the expression ‘you can lead a horse to water but you can’t
make it drink’? In this case, we could open the wormhole, but we could not
control when the target ships went through. We knew the target ships would come
through that wormhole because that was listed on their flightplan, but we did
not know exactly 
when
 they would be
coming through. Because the wormhole’s event horizon hopped around and only
stayed open in a particular location for less than half an hour, the target
ships might be coming through where we were, or they might be coming through
later, at another emergence point of the wormhole. That made our preparations
for attack enormously more complicated, because we had to get everything set up
and wait for the ships to arrive, then if the wormhole closed at that location,
we had to immediately jump to the next emergence point and set up for the
attack all over again. There was a delay when wormholes switched to another emergence
point, and Skippy planned to stretch out that delay to its limit, but still we
were pushing the ship’s jump capability to hop between emergence points so
quickly. Skippy warned that after seven emergence points, the 
Dutchman
 would need to take its jump
drive down for realignment, and during that process we would miss three
emergence points. In case the target ships came through any of those three
point while the 
Flying Dutchman
 was
not flying, we had dropped off recorder drones at all three, our plan was to
quickly pop in to see if those drones had detected the enemy coming through.

Another problem was that as the wormhole hopped
around in its eternal figure-eight pattern, some of the emergence points were
too far apart for the 
Dutchman
 to
cross the distance before the event horizon opened at that location. We would
encounter that problem at the fourteenth emergence point, so as a practical
matter we only had ten chances to intercept and attack the target ships. After
those ten opportunities, we had to bail on that wormhole and try again at the
next wormhole along the enemy’s flightpath. The good news was that Skippy could
screw with the closest wormhole, so we could go straight to the next wormhole
and wait well ahead of the enemy ships, who would have to slowly jump all the
way between wormholes. Yes, the solution to aliens discovering that something
was screwy with Elder wormholes, was for us to screw with Elder wormholes. It’s
kind of ironic, I know.

Another complication, which is great because I 
love
 complications, was that the third
potential wormhole where we might intercept the target ships was part of a very
active wormhole cluster near a major Thuranin military base, so we had to skip
that opportunity. After that, there were only two more wormholes before the
Maxolhx began their long, lonely trip to Earth. Their flightplan was vague
after the ships went through that last wormhole, so we had to hit them before
they went through it.

When we got the flightplan data well before those
ships even left their home base, I had been thrilled that we had so much time
to prepare. Then, because work expands to fill the time available, we had to
take the ship offline for maintenance and visit an Elder site and get into a
fight with an insane Elder AI and make wormholes act crazy to sell our cover
story and then upload our cover story to a relay station. 
Then
, we prepared our battlespace, and waited.

Waiting was the worst part. Waiting gives your mind
time to go into dark places and thnk bad thoughts. “Hey, uh Skippy. This is, ha
ha,” I laughed nervously, “kind of a funny question for you. When you put
together that cover story report, you, uh, didn’t include any Easter eggs in
it, did you?”

“No, why?”

“Oh, no reason, just-”

“Although it would have been good for you to
mention that 
before
 I uploaded the
fake report, you dumdum.”

“Yeah, I am a dumdum, we can all agree on that. No
Easter eggs, huh? That’s good.”

“True. Well, unless you count the Maxolhx putting
on Brony costumes and sneaking into a My Lil’ Pony convention while they were
at Earth. I couldn’t resist that one.”

“
What
?”

“Joking, Joe, I was joking. Damn you are gullible.
Now, shut up and wait while I scan for the enemy ships.”

We waited more, and waited, and waited, and the
wormhole closed on its own with absolutely nothing happening. We all breathed a
sigh of disappointment and relief, the relief part was because the ship was
still in one piece and we were still alive. Then Skippy quickly packed up his
toys, and we jumped to the next emergence point to do it all over again.

We did it again four more times, then at the fifth
emergence point, Skippy sounded an alarm. “Ship coming through!” he announced even
before sensors detected anything on our end. Skippy could tell by fluctuations
in the event horizon that a ship was approaching the wormhole.

“Stay frosty, everyone,” I said a bit too loudly,
proving that I was anything but frosty. Great way to lead by example, Bishop, I
told myself.

“Contact!” Skippy was also getting excited. “It’s-
Oh, crap, it’s just a Thuranin cruiser. Shit. Damn it, I feel like killing that
ship just for disappointing me.”

“Leave it alone, Skippy,” I warned, not knowing
whether he was serious.

“Yeah, yeah, the last thing I’m doing at this
point is to endanger the mission. Stupid little green pinheads.”

The Thuranin cruiser came through, sent an All
Clear signal back, and two heavily-laden star carriers followed. Seeing those
star carriers reminded me how long, spindly and massive the 
Flying Dutchman
 had been way back when we
captured it, and before we broke it several times. I felt an unexpected pang of
guilt at having ruined the careful work of Thuranin ship designers and
builders. If they could see what I had done with their once-proud star carrier,
they would weep.

Then they would, you know, kill me and wipe out
humanity, so I didn’t feel a whole lot of guilt for those little green MFers.

It was weird watching two Thuranin battlegroups
hanging in space right under our noses. At any other time, I would have been
paralyzed with fear at facing such a powerful armada. Right then, what I felt
was not fear but disgust. I wanted those battlegroups to 
get moving
 and 
get the hell
out of there
 so we could do our job. We could not attack the Maxolhx with
the Thuranin present as witnesses, and my greatest fear was that those Thuranin
had decided to boost their chances of winning a Client Species of the Year
award by providing an escort for the Maxolhx. That would seriously fuck things
up for us, enough that, as those star carriers drifted in space doing
absolutely nothing, I changed my mind about wanting them to go away and instead
I just wanted them to die die 
DIE
.

Hey, my superhero alter ego is No Patience man, so
it is understandable that waiting was not a core strength for me.

Anyway, the Thuranin sat around with their thumbs
up their asses doing nothing until the wormhole closed and then they DID
NOTHING for another TWENTY FUCKING MINUTES until they finally jumped away. By
that point, we had missed our opportunity to jump to the next emergence point
and I was seething with enough raw toxic hatred for the entire Thuranin species
that a single look from me could have wiped them from existence. Even Skippy,
clueless as he is, sensed my foul mood and he answered quietly without
extraneous chit chat. “Skippy, what are our options?”

“Joe, we cannot jump to the next emergence point
because the wormhole is already open there, and the Maxolhx could have come
through already. We might jump in right on top of them and blow the whole
operation.”

“Yeah, and if they did come through there, we will
never know it,” I slammed a fist down on the armrest of the command chair.
Again, I was not setting a good example, and I got some embarrassed glances
from the CIC. Simms shot me a look and I took the hint. “All right, no problem.
Nothing we can do about that, we stick to the plan,” I announced, trying to
sound calm and confident. “Skip to the next emergence point, we can get there
early, that is good news. Skippy, taking one jump off our schedule changes when
we need to take the jump drive down for realignment?”

“Not really, Joe. The three emergence points we
planned to skip during realignment are some of the least likely for the target
ships to come through, because the event horizons on the other end are not
located along the flightpath of those ships. They would more likely wait for a
more convenient emergence point. We know those ships are not in a great hurry to
get to Earth.”

“All right, fine, no problem,” I babbled. “Stick
to the plan. Skippy, you have all your toys packed away?”

“Affirmative.”

“Outstanding. Pilots, Nagatha, jump when ready.”

 

There was no joy at the next two emergence points,
then we took the ship offline for adjustments to the jump drive coils. We got
to the eleventh emergence point early, and waited fruitlessly. Same with the
following two, then the wormhole’s pattern had emergence points too far apart
for the 
Dutchman
 to follow. I ordered
the ship to jump to check on the three drones, which also had detected nothing,
and then Skippy used a gap in the wormhole’s pattern to connect us to the next
wormhole along the flightpath of the target ships. We got there, we set up for
the attack, and we waited.

Again.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTY ONE

 

The second wormhole had a different pattern, and
we got there so far ahead of time that Skippy and Nagatha got the jump coils
aligned perfectly. We had four opportunities to attack the target ships, then
the next five emergence points were too far away, then there were five more
chances before we had to give up and move on. It was out of our control, all we
could do was prepare the ground and wait and hope for our prey to present
themselves. That waiting had my stomach in knots and it was not easy on the crew
either.

“Something’s coming through,” Skippy announced,
his voice drained of emotion.

In the command chair, where my butt had fallen
asleep, I stifled a yawn and kept quiet, as there was nothing for me to do.
Crap, this was probably another Thuranin ship, or more likely Bosphuraq because
we were in their territory. If it were just a single Bosphuraq ship, I might
ask Skippy to destroy it, just for practice. And mostly because I was bored and
frustrated and felt like killing 
something

that day.

“Contact!” Skippy shouted, his excitement back.
“This is the real deal, Joe. Maxolhx ship just came through.”

“Configuration matches?” I asked anxiously. We had
to make damned certain that we attacked the correct two ships, the Maxolhx had
a lot of them flying around.

“Configuration is a match. I can’t confirm that is
one of our targets until I see the second ship,” he replied in a whisper.

Damn. I understood why he was whispering even in
cold, silent deep space where no one could hear us. That Maxolhx ship, that powerful
warship, was 
right there
 in front of
us. In this case, right there meant four hundred thousand miles, but in space
combat that was practically knife-fighting distance. My insides turned to water
from sudden fear.

Fear and anxiety, because we still had to 
wait
. Damn it! The first ship got its
shields and sensors back online after the disruption of passing through the
wormhole, and it scanned the area with passive sensors. Those sensors did not
detect our tightly-wrapped stealth field that Skippy was using seven percent of
his processing capacity to control, and the Maxolhx did not bother with
engaging their own stealth capability or conducting an active scan or even a
thorough passive scan. Why should they? The Maxolhx were the apex species of
the galaxy, technically one of two apex species but the Rindhalu were so old
and lazy and inactive that the playing field was mostly open to the Maxolhx as
long as they didn’t interfere too much with the spiders. Plus, the Maxolhx were
in their clients’ territory, and their mission had the sanction of the
Rindhalu. The defensive shields of the cruiser were active, making the ship
invulnerable to nearly any threat from us. There was no reason for the crew or
AI of that ship to be fearful, and their supreme arrogance was wrapped securely
around them like a comforting blanket.

A blanket that I hoped to wrap around their
hateful necks and strangle them with.

“Second ship coming through,” Skippy stated with a
catch in his voice. This could be the culmination of our mission one way or
another, or it could force us to wait again. Personally, I did not think I
could take any more tension, I already felt like ralphing from the flock of
butterflies doing a dance in my stomach. “Match. Positive match. These are the
target ships.”

“Is there,” I licked my dry lips, “any sign of a
third ship?” If the two target ships had an escort, all our plans were for
nothing. We could only tackle two warships, and Skippy gave us only an
unenthusiastic shmaybe about our chances to even damage two ships. If there
were more than two ships, we might as well go back to Earth and prepare for the
end.

“Negative,” Skippy’s voice shuddered with his own
relief. “The two ships are not signaling a following ship. Joe, I have bad
news; the position of the second ship is marginal for the attack.”

What to do? Wait until we caught the ships again
at a future wormhole and hope they just happened to be positioned more
optimally? 
If
 we caught them again?
No. “Screw it. We can’t risk losing these ships. Marginal is still within your
envelope?”

“Barely, Joe, and it is drifting to the edge right
now.”

“We go now,” I issued what might be the last
command of my brief career. “Skippy, 
go
!”

 

To initiate our plan, we had to do something so
crazy, so stupidly lunatic that only the Merry Band of Pirates would consider
such a reckless action. The 
Flying
Dutchman
 dropped stealth and broadcast a demand for the Maxolhx warships to
surrender. As our demand blasted across the space between ships, we accelerated
hard toward the target ships, in the process nearly burning out our
normal-space propulsion system. We could only keep up that level of
acceleration for three seconds after which the drive had to be shut down.

Three seconds was more than we needed, or we were
dead anyway. Our plan counted on the Maxolhx recognizing the 
Flying Dutchman
 as the mystery ship that
had led them and the Thuranin on a merry chase across the stars, before jumping
through and breaking an Elder wormhole. Though the aft end of the 
Dutchman
 was now a Frankenstein
collection of bolted-together components from the Roach Motel’s junkyard, our
ship was distinctive and no way could the Maxolhx miss seeing that we were the
ship their government very much wanted to capture.

Our lives and potential for mission success
depended entirely on the sophisticated AIs in control of the target ships. If
they were slow or confused and hesitated, or if they were aggressive and eager
for glory by capturing us, we were dead and I needed to self-destruct the ship.
We were counting on the two AIs to act like Skippy expected rational
intelligences to act. Their ships were on a vital mission, they had suddenly
and unexpectedly encountered a threat, and most importantly, the nature and
capability of that threat was unknown. Unknown, but certainly powerful, because
all they knew about us was that we had somehow 
manipulated
 and 
broken
 an
Elder wormhole, something the Maxolhx could only dream about. Though they knew
little about is, what they did know was that we had capabilities far beyond
their technology, so messing with us without backup and more data was a very
bad idea. To sell that notion, we demanded their surrender and burned hard
straight toward them. Skippy assumed a rational AI would first seek to preserve
its ship, its crew and itself by performing an emergency jump away just far
enough to study our ship and assess the situation. A primary rule of space
combat is, if you are facing an unknown threat, jump the hell out of there, you
can always jump back in later.

We had prepared the battle ground, we did what we
could to sell the notion of our mystery ship being so powerful that we demanded
two senior-species cruisers surrender, and everything else was beyond our
control.

The AIs of the two target ships fully assessed the
situation a microsecond after the photons of our surrender signal reached them,
and they acted.

They jumped away.

Or, those sumbitches 
tried
 to.

 

The jump drive coils of the target ships, so much
more capable and advanced compared to the mismatched collection of coils we
picked up from the junkyard, still used the same basic jump technology in the
same way. Their drives twisted spacetime and reality to open the kernel of an
event horizon at the far end, and the event horizons expanded and began to pull
the ships through.

Except there was a problem the Maxolhx had not
anticipated and could not control or detect. When we were in the Roach Motel,
Skippy had warned me that jump wormholes opening too close together could
overlap and interfere with each other, causing truly disastrous consequences.
To Skippy, that was a good safety tip and he expected my monkey brain to say ‘avoid
ever doing that’.

Instead, my monkey brain said ‘hold my beer’.

 

When I said we had prepared the battle ground, I
meant Skippy had sown the area with microwormholes. He could only create,
control and maintain a limited number of those magical tears in spacetime, his
initial guess was that he could work with about ninety of them. Testing
revealed he was limited to seventy eight, any more and his control began to
fail and the microwormholested became unstable, emit detectable gamma radiation
and collapsed. Because he needed some microwormholes to provide instantaneous
sensor data between the battlespace and the 
Dutchman
,
he could only devote fifty four of them to the attack. With the battlespace
being so large, we needed the enemy ships to be in a relatively small area so
at least one of those paltry fifty four wormholes would overlap with the jump
wormholes of each ship. The math was simple and unfavorable to us; we could
devote only twenty seven of the microwormholes to each ship, and those ships
were moving through a vast area of space. By ‘marginal’, he meant the second
ship was almost too far from a microwormhole, that is why I told him to go
immediately.

The Maxolhx ship AIs, being rational and
self-aware enough to be scared shitless about suddenly encountering a mystery
ship that dared demand 
they

surrender, engaged the jump drives they maintained on a hair-trigger at all
times. Coils energized fully, spacetime twisted in the usual weird yet
predictable fashion, and then-

And then disaster struck. Skippy expanded the microwormholes
closest to the two ships, overlapping their wildly resonating event horizons
with those of the Maxolhx ships in an event that lasted less than three
picoseconds. In the space occupied by the first ship, singularities merged and
clashed, energies that were never supposed to enter our local spacetime burst
forth into a universe that had physical laws incompatible with their place of
origin, and the ship ceased to exist.

Violently.

Like, 
violently
.

There was not an explosion like fireworks or a nuke,
the effects were mostly not visible and were highly localized, and there was
not even much electromagnetic radiation because most of the energy got sucked
into higher dimensions.

The energy of the violence was in the form of a
spacetime ripple, expanding outward at the local speed of light. When I said
‘highly localized’ I meant the effect was restricted to about two million
miles, a mere dot compared to the Milky Way galaxy. Unfortunately, there were
three things inside that two million mile bubble; an open Elder wormhole, the second
Maxolhx cruiser, and the 
Flying Dutchman
.

The Elder wormhole, constructed by beings of
unimaginable foresight and intelligence, warped itself to deflect and absorb
the spacetime ripple, shutting down its event horizon early when the local
network determined there was an unacceptably high potential for damage. The
wormhole remained shut down only briefly, then emerged at the next point along
its ancient route as if nothing had happened, impassively unconcerned about
events in the lower dimensions of reality.

The second Maxolhx ship, having timed its jump
slightly behind its sister ship, survived because its jump wormhole had not
formed enough to overlap Skippy’s microwormhole sabotage by the time disaster
struck the second ship in the form of the spacetime ripple. Its jump wormhole
collapsed, reactors were knocked offline, the ship suffered severe damage and
all weapons and defensive systems were inoperable. It was thrown across space,
no, the underlying space 
expanded

along with the ship, and it was catapulted across the roiling vacuum.

But it survived.

Damn it.

And the 
Flying
Dutchman
?

We were farther from the epicenter, so that ninety
nine point eight nine four percent of the ripple’s energy had dissipated by the
time it reached us. The effect still caused our main reactor to shut down
automatically, venting its plasma into space. Our jump drive coils became
completely misaligned, our already-stressed normal-space propulsion was nearly
torn from its mounts and all but three of the power conduits connected to it
were ripped away. We were also swept up in the spacetime expansion, riding the
ripple with the Maxolhx ship like two pieces of debris caught in a tsunami. The

Dutchman
 tumbled out of control,
sounds of alarms and shrieking composites bombarding my ears.

 

When we stopped, my mind was reeling, from my head
being thrown around and from the atoms of my brain cells having been through a
spacetime ripple that had them jingling like bells. Blinking did not help; my
eyes would not focus and my rattled brain was not capable of correctly
processing an image. “What, erp,” I swallowed to keep myself from puking. “Sit-
sitrep.” The main display was flickering, stabilizing. My eyes could not read
the data. “Skippy! What is the ship’s status?”

 
“Forget
that, Joe!” Skippy’s voice had a seldom-heard high-pitched squeak of panic.
“The second enemy ship survived! It is out of control and it is headed straight
for us. We can’t get out of the way in time, impact in forty six seconds.”

“Shit!” I was in a panic of my own, looking from
one armrest of the command chair to the other. Where was that damned button?
Did the 
Dutchman
 have such a button,
or had I imagined it? “Uh, Skippy, sound collision alert. Crew, prepare for
impact!”

“Hey, dumdum,” my stupidity forced the beer can to
drop his panic for the usual arrogant disdain, so I guess that was good. “The relative
speed of the two ships is one hundred seventy eight 
thousand
 kilometers per hour. The crew will never feel the impact before
it, you know, turns you monkeys briefly into plasma.”

Crap, he was right. In Star Wars, spaceships
collide slowly enough that you can see them crumple into each other and pieces
break off to go spinning across the screen in dramatic fashion. In real space
combat, things hit each other faster than the eye can see. Reality would suck
for the purpose of a movie, because the action would happen in the blink of an
eye and the audience would be like ‘WTF just happened’? In real space combat,
some of the dangerous ‘things’ flying around are long, thin bolts of
high-energy photons or charged particles that move at the speed of light, so
poor primitive monkey brains would have no time to react. “Is there anything we
can do?” Asking that was more like a prayer to the Almighty than an actual
question to Skippy.

“Nope. Not that I know of. The main drive is
offline, most thruster control units are still rebooting and I’m not optimistic
about getting them-”

His tendency to wander off the subject was highly
irritating, especially right then. “Do you have 
any
 good news for me?”

“Well, hmm. Hey!” He was suddenly cheery. “The
collision will clear the monkey smell out of what is left of the-”

“Are you even 
trying

to be helpful?”

“Um, no, why? I 
told
 you, there is nothing I can do, and I am, um, I am overcome
with grief at your impending and inevitable death. Yeah, that’s it. 
Grief
 is making me amuse myself at your
expense.”

“Asshole,” I gritted my teeth. Arguing with him
wouldn’t accomplish anything. “Can we jump?”

“Jump?” He screeched. “Attempting a jump right now
would kill you more surely than-”

“Not a full jump. When we captured the 
Dutchman
, you used your magical powers
to warp spacetime so the ship jumped off course, and the Thuranin couldn’t find
us. Can you use the jump drive to warp space just a little, enough for us to
avoid a collision?”

“Well, shit. It would be great if you have these
brainstorms quicker, Joe, your timing 
sucks
.
Ok, Ok, let me think. Um, shmaybe. The jump drive is 
totally
 dorked up, it won’t be much use. I suggest we vent air from
the starboard side docking bays to-”

“Don’t 
suggest
,
you idiot. 
Do
 it!”

The ship shuddered as he blew open the docking bay
doors on one side. “Done. That helped a little. Oooh, this is gonna be 
close
. You monkeys should close your
eyes.”

 

Skippy later explained that he had to feed his own
power into the jump capacitors, and when even that was taking too long, directly
into the jump coils. Forcing unregulated and out-of-tune energy into the coils
blew seven out of the ten he planned to use, and the resulting explosion
destroyed two other coils before he could use them. That last coil made a
feeble attempt to form a jump point before it, too was overwhelmed and cooked
by the uncontrolled energies saturating that bank of coils. A feeble attempt
was all Skippy needed to do what I asked, or to partly do a different thing
inspired by but much more useful than my ignorant suggestion. Whatever. All I
know is without me, the beer can would have done exactly nothing useful until
that Maxolhx ship smacked into us. Once again the score was: monkey brains one,
beer can zero.

The ship didn’t jump through spacetime, it kind of

sagged
 across it. A jump creates a
rift in spacetime from one place to another, where the distance between two
distant points is briefly zero. Not exactly zero, but that kind of physics
makes my head hurt so let’s pretend the jump wormhole is zero-length. What
Skippy’s attempted non-jump did was more like create a long dent in spacetime
as the ship got dragged sideways, scraping across the underlying and invisible
quantum fabric of the universe. If I ever get an ominous letter from the
universe’s insurance company demanding reimbursement for damages, that would
not surprise me. And if that happens, all I can say is get in line, asshole, a
lot of people and lizards and other entities are pissed at me. Good luck
collecting on that bill.

All the efforts of Skippy the Magnificent, plus
the sacrifice of ten jump coils, shifted the 
Dutchman
 only sixteen thousand kilometers, which was the ship’s
length in local spacetime multiplied by some logarithmic thing Skippy tried to
explain to me. It also weirdly skewed the ship’s kinetic energy so that after
the non-jump that made my stomach do sickening flips, we were moving in almost
the opposite direction and three thousand kilometers per hour slower. That
result surprised Skippy and forced him to reconsider the multi-dimensional
physics of jumping.

“It worked! We’re clear! We- Oops, now we might
collide anyway because our momentum is carrying us the wrong way. Shit! Um, no,
we’re good. Heh heh, had to double check my math there, coming out of that
weird jump effect seriously messed with the navigation system.”

To calm myself and to demonstrate my cool command
of the situation, I tried to steeple my fingers together like one of the Star
Trek captains, I forget which one. Trouble is, my hands were shaking so hard my
fingers kept missing, so I folded one hand over the other in my lap. My
conclusion was simple: I 
suck
, and I
should never be in charge of a starship. Or a rowboat. “Thank you once again,
Skippy. We’re are not going to collide?”

“Um, wait for it, waaaaaait for it- Yup! That ship
just slid past us, we cleared it by a comfortable six thousand kilometers.
Piece of cake. Although kind of razor-thin in terms of space combat.”

“Excellent! We’re good, then?”

“Yes. Unless, you know, you count the fact that
ship is rapidly repairing itself and will likely have its weapon systems back online
within four minutes. Um, maybe less.”

“Four 
minutes
?”
It was my turn for my voice to shriek like a little girl. “What the hell can we
do in four minutes? Missiles? Can we launch-”

“We can launch, Joe, but the targeting system sensors
are still resetting, those missiles don’t have any guidance to the target.”

Crap! My mind raced through a slim list of
possibilities. The only offensive weapons the poor old 
Flying Dutchman
 carried were missiles and a maser cannon. I did not
have any confidence in the maser for ship-to-ship combat, and against a Maxolhx
warship’s powerful shields it would be like pointing a flashlight at the enemy.
Could we- “Wait. Hey, beer can, can’t 
you

act as the targeting system for our missiles?”

“
Ugh
.
No, because, dumdum, I am still prohibited from using weapons. Don’t you pay
attention at all when I talk? I swear, talking to you is like-”

“You are not blocked from feeding data to the missile
guidance system, right?”

“Hmm, I guess not. Damn it, I should have thought
of that. Nagatha! I am transferring my sensor data to you, interpret it and
feed it into the missile targeting system for me.”

“Yes, dear,” Nagatha was fairly giggling with
delight. She had the same restrictions as Skippy, but this was her big chance
to finally participate in blowing shit up. Although Nagatha sounded like a
kindly old aunt, she had a naughty streak. “Missile guidance cores are updated
with targeting data. How many would you like to launch, Joseph?”

“Huh?” It startled me to have Nagatha inquiring
about use of weapons. “
All
 of them!”

Skippy was skeptical. “Um, all of them, Joe?”

“Hell yes! We won’t get a better shot at that
ship!” Pointing at Simms in the CIC, I got a thumbs up from her, and the
display showed missiles ripple-firing from our launchers, including the aft
launchers that were facing away from the enemy. Each launcher had three
missiles in a rotary canister; three birds flew out of the launch shaft, then
the canister pulled back to reload. Two of our forward launchers had a
speed-loader that Skippy had added when he rebuilt the ship at Newark, so those
two rotary canisters had three missiles each slammed into them at once at each
reload. The other launchers needed the canister to stop three times in its
rotation, to reload with one missile at a time. Regardless of the mechanisms
used, we had all of our depleted supply of warbirds running hot within thirty
five seconds. When I ordered Simms to launch everything we had, that included
the big shipkillers that were in the forward launchers, plus missiles that had
no possibility of causing serious damage to a Maxolhx ship, but could help
overwhelm the enemy’s proximity-defense system. Flying toward the enemy ship
were missiles with big shipkiller warheads, other missiles dedicated to jamming
enemy sensors, smaller missiles designed for use against surface targets or
dropships, and missiles with warheads that split into dozens of decoys. The
shipkillers were hypervelocity birds, capable of accelerating at thousands of
Gees for a short time. Added to the boost all missiles got from the railguns of
the launch tubes, the furious acceleration of hypervelocity weapons allowed
them to streak in without wasting energy and precious time on evasive maneuvers
to throw off the aim of enemy defense cannons. Coordinated by Skippy who technically
could not use weapons but was outstanding at 
recommending
 tactics for the ship’s targeting system to apply, our missiles
tried every tactic Skippy had up his devious little sleeve. Two shipkillers
slammed out of their launch tubes straight at the enemy and were still
accelerating at twenty four thousands Gees when both of them were intercepted
more than seventeen thousand kilometers from the target. Ok, I did not expect
such a crude attack to succeed, but my hope was the enemy’s sensors were as
confused as ours, and hitting the Maxolhx ASAP before their Proximity-Defense System
could reboot was worth a shot.

Behind the first two missiles, another three shipkillers
lingered in a cloud of lesser birds that provided jamming, decoys and simply a
lot of targets to saturate enemy defenses. Instead of using their hyper
acceleration capability to surge ahead, our last three shipkillers jinked
wildly at random, staying within the cover of the other birds. Skippy had
explained that most evasive flight maneuvers were not as random as the
missile’s designers thought, because he was usually able to detect a pattern
while missiles came at us, giving our PDS cannons an advantage. When Skippy the
Magnificent recommended evasive actions for our missiles, they jinked left,
right, up, down, faster then slower in a truly random fashion that had to be
maddeningly frustrating to the computers of the arrogant Maxolhx. The enemy PDS
cannons nibbled away at our cloud of missiles, I watched with a sick feeling as
icons on the display blinked out rapidly. In space combat, most thing happened
rapidly, so seeing a rapid decline in the number of birds we had in flight was
not unexpected, and I was encouraged that all three shipkillers escaped the
maser cannon barrage of the enemy, while our lesser missiles moved slower to
offer easy and tempting targets to the Maxolhx AI that was coordinating the
defense. In only a few seconds, the trio of shipkillers would reach the
imaginary line where they would stop screwing around with the evasive stuff,
and slam forward to fulfill their destinies by ripping into the enemy hull.

In the blink of an eye, all our hopes were dashed.
From one second to the next, the glowing red icons of our three best missiles
winked out. “What the hell happened?” I shouted in anguish as other icons
closed with the enemy. We got two impacts, just two, and neither of those
warheads penetrated anything vital.

“The damned AI aboard that ship is 
smart
,” Skippy groaned with a touch of
admiration. “It realized we were allowing it to hit missiles we didn’t care
about, so it took a calculated risk. The AI directed their PDS to concentrate
fire on the only three missiles that were truly moving randomly. Those missiles
got bracketed too fast for me to adjust from here, they all flew into maser
bolts. If it is any consolation, one of the shipkiller warheads sent shrapnel
into the enemy’s portside sensor array when it detonated. I am sorry, Joe.”

Slumping in my chair, my brain locked up as I
processed the horror of our situation. Our missile magazines were empty, all
our warshots expended for nothing. For 
nothing
.
While I tried to think of something, anything we could do, Skippy poured
gasoline on the fire.

“Uh oh, Joe. The Maxolhx are demanding that we surrender,
and they know 
humans
 are in control
of the 
Dutchman
!”

“How did that happen?”

“Damage to our hull has caused leakage from
communications relays. I thought the leakage was minimal and that I had the
electromagnetic radiation contained and scrambled, but once again it appears I
have underestimated our opponent. They must have been able to decrypt enough
data to determine who is aboard this ship. Again,” he gave a world-weary sigh,
“I truly am sorry.”

Part of me wanted to scream at him that being sorry
was bullshit because we were all going to die and my reckless plan had exposed
our secret and doomed our homeworld. That was the little Joey Bishop part of
me, the childish undisciplined part that lashed out emotionally and
accomplished nothing. Fortunately, the United States Army had somehow trained
into me the ability to put emotions aside for the moment and focus on solving
the problem. “Are they telling the whole galaxy about us?”

“No, I am jamming their transmissions, that is one
bit of good news. Another potential bit of good news is that I am able to read
some of 
their
 internal message
traffic, through leaks in their hull. Those kitties are in a full-blown panic,
Joe. They have no idea how humans could have captured a Thuranin star carrier,
and our destruction of the other ship demonstrates we have capabilities they
can only imagine. Some of them are speculating correctly that humans are
responsible for the alarming behavior of Elder wormhole, and 
that
 thought has them scared out of
their minds. I mean, actually scared out of their minds, some of them are
babbling incoherently. There is a theory flying around that humans have only been

pretending
 to have primitive
technology, that Earth is a fake, that the true human homeworld is more
advanced than even the Rindhalu and- Ooooh, now here is a truly whacky
conspiracy theory. Joe, they are afraid that humans are really a group of
Elders who decided not to ascend. Hmm, that actually would explain some
questions I have had about how human development, like-”

While he was repeating unhelpful theories, I was
looking at the main display on the bulkhead to the right of the pilot couches.
My heart skipped a beat and I fumbled with the display controls to zoom in the
image. “Skippy! That ship’s energy shields are down?”

“Yup. Yes, why? That is why those two wimpy little
missiles were able to cause damage, although of course not enough to-”

There was still a chance, if we acted quickly
enough, and if we had any luck at all. “Is our main maser cannon available?”

“Yeah, sure,” he didn’t bother to throw in a ‘duh’
because info about the cannon’s status was also on the main display. “Why?”

“Because, jackass, we can hit them while their
shields are down! Simms, target their-”

“Whoa. Um, Joe, I hate to be the bearer of bad
news, and unlike most times when I say that, I actually do 
not
 enjoy giving you this bad news. The armor plating protecting
vital parts of that ship is too tough for our little maser cannon. All we could
do is cause some of that armor plate to flake away, and show the Maxolhx how
weak we are.”

“Crap! Damn it! Uh, wait, they don’t 
know
 how weak we are? Hell, how about we
tell 
them
 to surrender, if they’re so
scared of us?”

“Nice try, Joe, but that won’t work. The Maxolhx
would never surrender, they will fight to the last one of them.”

“Simms, belay that order,” I admitted defeat.
There was no point to burning out our maser cannon exciters if we couldn’t
accomplish anything. We had nothing to shoot with- “Huh,” a thought hit me.
“Skippy, the Maxolhx are waiting for their masers and railguns and whatever to
come online, but why haven’t they launched missiles at us?”

“Because their offensive weapon targeting sensors
are in worse shape than ours, Joe. I suspect they will be launching missiles at
us shortly, however there we have a spot of good news. While their AI is clever
enough to figure out which of our missiles were the major threat, I studied its
actions very closely, and have created a model that allows me to predict its
actions with a high degree of accuracy. If, or 
when
, they launch missiles at us, I believe I can provide data to
our proximity-defense system that will allow us to smoke their birds out of the
sky before they can cause any major damage.”

“Wow,” that astonished me. “That is great news,
Skippy.”

“Nah, not really. All it means is I will have a
minute or so to admire my own brilliance before, you know, that ship’s railguns
or more exotic weapons slice the 
Dutchman

to pieces.”

You might think that in such a crisis, I should
focus only on what is immediately important, and not let my mind wander off
topic. You would be wrong, because allowing my mind to wander is the key to monkey-brain
thinking.

Uh, that’s my story and I’m sticking to it.

“No, I knew that. What blows my mind is, you
created a model to mimic how an advanced Maxolhx AI thinks, after watching it
for, like, ten seconds while is flew past us? I call bullshit on that.”

“Joe,” he sighed. “You forget, I also ransacked
the mind of the AI in the pixie factory, and the AIs aboard both relay
stations. So, I already had a basic model of the architecture that underlies
the matrix of Maxolhx AIs, all I needed to do was plug in some variables. Please,
dude. This stuff is easy-peasy for my awesomeness.”

His line of bullshit did not convince me. “And you
did that just by watching how that ship’s AI managed their PDS? Riiiight.”

“Joe? Trust. The. 
Awesomeness
.”

“I would trust it more if your awesomeness had a
way to get us out of-”

“Joseph,” Nagatha interrupted. “I am terribly
sorry to bother you, but the enemy ship is charging weapons. As we may have
only seconds to live, I would like to say that is has truly been an honor to-”

“
HOLY

shit,” Skippy gasped.

That really pissed me off. “Hey asshole, Nagatha was
talking-”

“Screw the blah blah blah, Joe,” he blurted out
breathlessly. “I have- 
I
 just dreamed
up a monkey-brain idea. 
Me
! How did 
that
 happen?”

“What is-”

He cut me off again. “
Fire maser cannon
!” He roared, his voice booming out of speakers
all around the bridge and CIC, so loud it made me cringe and my ears ring.

Shaking my head and blinking, I was even more
pissed at him for falsely getting our hopes up. “You just told me-”

“Forget what I said! 
FIRE THE FUCKING CANNON NOW NOW NOW
!”

Showing the value of a well-trained crew who have
served together long enough to anticipate each other’s actions, Simms did not
wait for me to signal her. She flipped up the clear plastic cover over the
maser cannon controls and jabbed her thumb down on the red button.

And held her thumb there.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTY TWO

 

While most surviving crewmembers of the cruiser 
Rathnux-att-Kal
 panicked and generally
acted in a manner unworthy of their lofty status as a senior species, the
ship’s AI remained cool and in control, calmly and somewhat haughtily
disdaining the biological beings it served. The AI did not truly need input
from its masters, it knew what to do even in the unprecedented situation of a
battle with a human-controlled starship, a ship of still-unknown but
frighteningly impressive capabilities. The AI knew what was the best approach
to the tactical situation, because there was a lengthy but limited list of
things it
 could
 do. Having destroyed
a barrage of pathetically low-tech missiles from the human starship, the AI was
confidently if impatiently waiting for damaged power couplings to realign so it
could feed energy into the masers, particle cannons, railguns and more exotic
machines of destruction.

If the AI were being honest with itself, it would
have to admit many of its higher-order subminds were trapped in loops that
could be considered panic, except that of course artificial intelligences were
much too disciplined to ever fall victim to a biological weakness like panic. Perhaps
its subminds responsible for strategic thinking and deep analysis were in
less-than-optimal condition, having been rendered useless by endlessly worrying
about variables they could not control. Strategic planning was impossible
without complete situational awareness, the higher-order subminds told their
controlling intelligence, and situational awareness could not be attained
without effective analysis of the data. Such analysis was impossible without
data, and they simply did not have enough, really 
any
, data on the mystery human starship that had ambushed and
destroyed their companion ship.

The AI listened to the complaints and anguished
calls from its higher-order subminds, in truth the AI quickly slapped together
a subroutine to deal with the squabbling and babbling subminds to free its
consciousness for useful endeavors. Yes, the subroutine told the panicked
subminds, I agree that we need more data, however since we do not currently
have more data and are unlikely to gather a useful and complete dataset for
analysis, what should the ship do in the meantime?

Nothing, 
duh
,
replied the subminds. How can we recommend any action without proper analysis?

The subroutine sighed, commiserated with the
subminds, and looked forward longingly to the future time when it would be
erased to end its misery.

With its higher-order subminds rendered ineffective,
and the biological crew paralyzed by waiting for the their superb artificial
intelligence to provide strategic guidance, the AI ironically found itself
relying on lower-order subminds that were barely more than subroutines,
incapable of true thinking and limited to executing a pre-programmed set of
instructions. Rather than being frustrated by the restricted capabilities of
the tactical subminds, the AI found the experience of dealing with them
directly to be refreshing. They cut through all the noise and generated
blessedly simple and straight-forward recommendations that were clear and
concise. Because we do not know the full capabilities of the mystery enemy
ship, the tactical subminds concluded, we must disable or, if necessary,
destroy it as quickly as possible, by the most expedient means possible. Since
the sensor suite that provided missile guidance was still in its
way-too-lengthy process of restart and calibration, the ship should fire its
particle cannons when their power relays were repaired, then the maser cannons.
Those directed-energy weapons should target the enemy ship’s shortened spine,
severing the aft engineering section from the forward crew section. The 
Rathnux-att-Kal
 could then take its time
disabling the defensive systems protecting the enemy ship’s the forward
section, preparing that part of the enemy ship for boarding by bots that would
seize the human crew. The more exotic weapons, such as the device that skewed
spacetime, would be downgraded in priority for repair, as bringing those
complicated and energy-intensive exotics online would take too long.

No
! The
higher-order strategic subminds roared as one when they heard the
recommendation of their simplistic cousins. Facing an unknown threat, the 
Rathnux-att-Kal 
needed its most deadly
weapons available. Then and only then, when the ship was able to protect
itself, could the ship even consider cute tactics like slicing the enemy
starship’s spine.

 
Again
ignoring the frightened squeals of the higher-order subminds, the AI concentrated
nanomachines and bots to restoring power flow to the particle cannons. By the
time the strategic subminds calmed down, the AI would have lanced out with the
powerful particle beams, and the issue of how to deal with the enemy ship would
become moot.

There were only three more power relays to be
repaired to bring the first particle cannon online, a task complicated by there
being gaping holes in the hull between the power generators and the cannon.
Irritated by the protests of the ship’s maintenance AI that stretching
vulnerable power relays across a gap in the ship’s armor plating would be
foolish, the AI directed its efforts to getting the first particle cannon
online with maximum speed and minimum distractions, so it could proceed with-

The enemy ship fired a maser beam, the high-energy
photons striking the gap in the hull plating, melting the power relays that had
already been repaired and overloading the particle cannon’s capacitors, making
them explode. Suddenly, there was 
another

gap in the ship’s armor plating.

Having successfully knocked out the most immediate
threat to themselves, the human ship shifted its maser to what the 
Rathnux-att-Kal’s 
AI thought a most
curious target; a gap in the armor where part of the ship’s main structural frames
were exposed.

What could the humans possibly be thinking, the AI
asked itself? Then with a chuckle of bemusement, it realized the ignorant
humans must be thinking they could do to the powerful Maxolhx warship what the 
Rathnux-att-Kal’s 
AI had planned for the
mystery ship; to cut it in half. Ha ha! The AI laughed, startling all its
subminds. This is going to be easier than expected, it assured its subminds and
passed that information to its biological masters. While the humans attempt the
futile task of cutting through the tough frame of the cruiser, the AI would
repair the particle cannons on the other side of the ship, then knock out the
enemy maser cannon at leisure.

There was some small bit of actual danger, the AI
knew, for even the frame of composites and exotic materials could not long
withstand the maser energy searing into it and threatening the other connecting
frames that held the warship together. No matter, protecting the frames in that
area was a simple matter of retuning the structural stability field that
strengthened the crude material of the frames, so the AI did that. Retuning the
field not only brought the targeted frame back to nearly full strength, it also
deflected part of the incoming maser energy, frustrating the enemy’s efforts
to-

Hmm, the AI pondered. 
That
 was odd.

The maser beam had retuned itself, 
before
 the AI adjusted the frame’s
structural energy field to compensate. The maser beam not only was now at a
different frequency, the exact frequency that cancelled the field’s structural
stability, it was now also pulsing at the exposed frame’s natural rate of
resonance.

Huh, the AI shrugged. So the humans got lucky. All
it needed to do was retune the structural stability field to a random
frequency-

Oh shit.

A frequency which the enemy maser beam had already
switched to!

What the hell?

Switching frequencies again and again and again
and again accomplished nothing, the incoming maser energy always anticipated
the AI’s move, even though it was switching frequencies at random without any
predictable pattern.

And 
that

was even more odd and alarming. The relatively weak maser beam spread out,
defocusing and nutating in a pattern that matched not only the natural
resonance of the exposed structural frame, but also adjusting as the vibration effect
traveled to connecting frames. Retuning the stability fields of those
connecting frames only made the increasingly violent vibration worse, because
the incoming maser retuned itself just before the AI acted, making the
connecting frames resonate together as a unit.

Still, there was no actual danger to the cruiser.
The structural frames were equipped with vibration dampeners, which were crude
physical devices that, despite the primitive nature of their technology, could
effectively absorb vibration that could threaten the frames they were attached
to. The dampeners were nothing more than a jacket around the frames, filled
with energy-absorbing composite gel and spaced at critical intervals. The AI
knew it could rely on-

Shit! The AI shouted in its internal language.
What the F- 
HOW
 was the dampener gel
disintegrating?! Somehow, the human ship had tuned the pulsation of its maser
beam to multiple frequencies, one of which caused the dampener gel to vibrate
so rapidly it boiled and exploded, bursting free from their encasing jackets
and adding to the violent shaking of the frames they were attached to. One by
one in a sequence that was almost a blur even to the cruiser’s AI, vibration
dampeners failed.

Now, the AI realized, there 
was
 an actual danger to the cruiser.

 

Within three seconds of the weak enemy maser beam
striking the 
Rathnux-att-Kal
, the
vibration was traveling along the vital frames in the rear section of the ship,
causing backup reactors there to automatically shut down, yet their shutdown
sequence itself fed into the resonance, as the reactors became less massive by
venting their plasma into space. The reactors began shaking themselves apart,
and that in turn caused the resonance to travel along the interwebbed set of frames
that supported the jump drive capacitors. If the hellish energies in those
capacitors were released in uncontrolled fashion, the ship was doomed, the AI
told itself, even as every random or non-random thing it tried to counter the
vibration not only failed but somehow made the resonance effect worse.

We 
told

you something unexpected like this could happen, its higher-order subminds
replied in fatalistic smugness. But did you listen to us? Nooooo, you did not,
you big jerk.

HOW IS THIS
HAPPENING
??? The now-panicked AI screamed to itself.

 

I often call Skippy an asshole, and that is
usually totally justified, but sometimes 
I

am the asshole. From his point of view, maybe I am the real asshole all the
time, because what the hell was a primitive ignorant monkey like me doing as
captain of a starship? He is absolutely right that filthy monkeys cannot appreciate
the vast scope of his awesomeness.

For example, His Incomprehensible Magnificence
used our ship’s wimpy main maser cannon, which would take several shots to
slice through a stick of butter, to shake the enemy ship apart. No, that isn’t
right, our maser didn’t output enough energy to shake even a small part of that
ship. He did something even more awesome; he made the enemy ship shake 
itself
 apart. Physics is Skippy’s 
bitch
, baby!

Way back in basic training, I learned that troops
should never march in step across a bridge, because the rhythmic impact of feet
on the bridge deck just might match the natural frequency of the bridge’s
structure. It was unlikely that a marching platoon of soldiers could shake a
bridge apart, but we could damage and weaken the bridge, and why take the
chance? If you have ever seen video of an opera singer shattering a wine glass,
that is what I’m talking. The singer’s voice matches the high-pitched natural
resonance of the wine glass, and the effect builds on itself until the glass
shatters. Another example is pushing a child on a swing. It takes a hard push
to get going, but once the swing is in motion, a gentle shove at the right time
can make that swing go really high, which is fun for the kid and frightening
for the parent, but-

Yes, yes, you Professor Nerdnik in the back there
with your hand up going ‘Ooh ooh you’re not exactly correct about that’! I have
a suggestion for what you can do with that hand. I’m trying to break it down
Barney-style for a Joe-Bishop-level audience, Ok?
  
So shut up and let me talk.

Skippy’s mind-boggling awesomeness was
demonstrated not only because he knows geeky stuff like the physics of
resonance, because that would only have worked for the first half microsecond.
The AI on the enemy ship would just have adjusted the structural stability
field of the targeted frame and cancelled the vibration, making our maser beam nothing
more than wasted energy, like a microwave flashlight.

Skippy’s true genius is that he outsmarted a
Maxolhx AI. He didn’t just outsmart it, he spanked that thing and sent it to
bed without any dinner. If the battle had been a chess match, Skippy could have
left an envelope with all his planned moves, and all the moves his opponent
would make, and he would not have to waste his time actually playing the game. Somehow,
after only a few seconds of observing that AI in action, he programmed a model
to anticipate exactly how that AI thought and once he had the model fine-tuned,
he knew precisely how it was going to react even before it made the decision.
Before that AI adjusted the structural integrity field, Skippy had already
retuned our maser to match what the resonance frequency 
would
 be after the enemy AI acted.

Getting into the head of that AI was not the only magic
Skippy performed. As that ship zipped past us in the blink of an eye, his
sensors scanned it and he created a virtual model of the ship down to the
molecular level. He understood exactly how that ship was put together, its
strengths and weaknesses and most importantly, how it all connected. As the
resonance traveled deeper into and farther back along the ship’s internal
structure, he adjusted the pulsation of the maser cannon’s exciters, keeping
the resonance in the enemy ship going and feeding it so the deadly effect built
on itself.

All that, of course, he told me about 
after
 we saw the Maxolhx ship suddenly
and unexpectedly explode into subatomic particles, shortly after our wimpy
maser beam struck what looked like an unimportant area of that ship. When I saw
that blessed event, I had my mouth open, about to demand why Skippy wanted
Simms to fire the maser. My first thought was the explosion had to be a divine
miracle, then I figured somehow the universe had cashed in all my remaining
karma chips for me, then I thought maybe we got lucky and that ship simply
exploded due to damage we caused with our wormhole trap.

We did not need divine intervention, karma or
luck.

We had Skippy the Magnificent.

“Skippy,” I sat back in the command chair after he
finished explaining. “How the 
hell

did you do that?”

“Oh for- Did you not hear anything I said? No,
wait,” he muttered disgustedly. “Stupid monkey heard me, he didn’t 
understand
 any of it. Ok, let me try again.
The maser-”

“Yeah, no, I understand what you did, close
enough. Let me rephrase my question; how the hell did 
you
 do that?”

“Technically,” he answered slowly, “Colonel Simms
fired the maser, and I-”

“You are missing my point. 
You
 had a monkey-brain idea! You! How did that happen?”

“Oh, that. You know what, Joe, I truly do not
know,” he admitted, his voice full of wonderment. “It just suddenly popped into
my head. There wasn’t a process, it wasn’t like I logically ran through a
dataset of tactical possibilities and narrowed down a list of- Anyway, I was
thinking we could not use the maser to harm that ship because of its tough
armor plating, then I looked at areas where there were holes in the plating and
I was disappointed to discover nothing vital under those exposed sections.
Then, hmmm, my mind kind of wandered, and I was wishing there was a way for the
maser beam to curve, so it could go into a gap in the plating, then bend to hit
something vital. Then, um, I kind of daydreamed. I was thinking that after the
Maxolhx destroy the 
Flying Dutchman
,
I will be floating out here forever without you, and that made me very sad.”

“We would miss you too, Skippy.”

“Huh? Oh, um, yeah. What I really meant is, I was
thinking the extinction of humanity would mean I never get to try a sandwich.”

Even knowing Skippy, that surprised me. The only
reason he would care that humanity had been wiped out was because he couldn’t
get a decent lunch? “A freakin’ 
sandwich
?”

“Yeah. I’ve never tasted a sandwich, Joe, but I
have seen you practically giddy when you are making one, and I would like to
experience that someday.”

A good sandwich can be an amazing thing, I could
not argue with him about that. “How are you going to- Forget it. Daydreaming
about a sandwich gave you a monkey-brain idea?”

“No, Joe. 
Not

thinking about the problem gave me the idea. I was running through a list of
sandwiches you have made- I don’t count hot dogs as a ‘sandwich’- Trying to
rank them in order of potential scrumptiousness, while I guess my
subconsciousness was working away on how to destroy the enemy ship with the
puny weapons we have. I remember wishing there were a way for the maser energy
to do something useful, and, 
BINGO
!
The idea popped into my head. It is amazing, really. Of course, the first shot
took out that particle cannon that was about to come back online, I could not
allow the enemy to hit our one maser cannon, or my brilliant idea would have
been for nothing.”

“Skippy, your awesomeness truly is almost more
than the universe can stand. I mean that for realz, homeboy.”

“Oh. Why, thank you, Joe.”

“You deserve way more praise than this poor monkey
can give. Hey, since you knew that enemy AI inside and out, what do you think
was the last thing that went through its mind before the ship turned into a
cloud of plasma?”

“Um, hee hee. Since that AI’s substrate was housed
in the middle of the ship, the last thing to go ‘
through
’ its mind was part of a reactor,” he snorted at his own
joke and I laughed with him. “Hey, praise and all that is nice, but
monkey-brain ideas are supposed to be 
your

job, Joe. You don’t do anything else that is useful around here. Why didn’t 
you
 think of making that ship vibrate
itself apart?”

“Because, uh, I didn’t know that was possible?”

“Because?”

“I guess it’s because I don’t know much about
physics?”

“Becaaaaaaaause?” he stretched the word out,
enjoying himself.

“Because,” I sighed and said what he wanted to
hear, which was also the absolute truth. “Even for a monkey, I am a dumdum.”

“Egg-
zactly
!”

“Are you happy now?”

“Um, I will be happy after you wallow in your
misery for a while, berating yourself for being a moron until your
self-loathing becomes so awful that you regret ever being-”

“Uh huh, don’t worry about that, I’m there
already,” I admitted the truth. “So tell me, Oh Most Magnificent One, can we
count on more monkey-brain ideas from you in the future?”

“I don’t know, Joe.”

“What do you mean, you don’t know? You just did
it, 
duh
.”

“I do not 
know

how I did it, double 
DUH
. Until I
figure out how 
you
 do it all the
freakin’ time, I can’t be confident that a brilliant idea will pop into my head
at the right moment.”

“Ok, anyway, props to you, that was truly
awesome.” 

“You know what would be great, Joe? If you and the
crew celebrated my awesomeness in an appropriate fashion.”

“Uh, sure, like what?”

“I don’t know, surprise me. Like, you could
compose and perform an epic opera about me and my awesomeness.”

“Yeah, that is never going to happen. Hey,” I
snapped my fingers. “How about we sing your theme song for you?”

“I have a theme song?” He asked, flabbergasted.

“Sure, you know,” and I launched into singing, or
as close to singing as I could manage. Simms joined in from the CIC, tears of
laughter running down her cheeks. “
Skippity-Doo-Dah,
Skippity-Dole, my oh my he is a such an asshole. Nothing but arrogance coming from
him, Skippity-Doo-Dah, Skippity-Dim
-”

“Not funny Joe!” He shouted to drown me out but he
couldn’t stop me. The new crew was laughing, laughing at Skippy.

“
Asshole
beer can on our starship. This is crap, it’s actual, nothing here is satisfactual
.
 Skippity-Doo-Dah, Skippity-Dim.
 
Wonderful monkeys, arrogant him
-”

 

 

The ship jumped away seven hours later, after
Skippy’s magical little elfbots completed essential emergency repairs. From
that new position in the middle of dead interstellar space, we had a
much-needed and well-deserved stand-down while Skippy and Nagatha examined the
ship bow to stern and began the slow process of fixing what they could. Skippy
told me firmly that the ship needed to go back to Earth and be taken apart so
he could finally perform heavy maintenance. I was nervous about the ship being
defenseless in Earth orbit, but he insisted the repair work was not optional,
and he might need access to Earth’s industrial resources, crude as they were.
“Truthfully, Joe, I am not a hundred percent certain I can fix everything that
is busted aboard this ship. Some of the systems are so broke-dick, we may have
to disconnect them unless I can fabricate replacements.”

“Broke-dick?” I laughed.

“Did I not use that slang term correctly?” he
asked with a touch of anxiety. Skippy very much wanted to fit in to the crew,
to be treated like a person and not a super-intelligent beer can. Using slang
was his way of trying to be one of the cool kids.

“Yeah, you said the right thing. I never heard you
say that before.”

“The new SEALS team uses that term a lot,” he explained.

“Oh. Yeah, I can see that.” Because the 
Flying Dutchman
 was not supposed to
leave Earth when we stole it, the ship was missing a lot of important gear. For
example, many of our precious Kristang powered armor suits were on Earth. We
had to make do with the gear we had, and the situation was decidedly unsat. To
get enough suits for the STAR team, Skippy’s maintenance bots had to splice
together mismatched parts. Smythe had suits that were fully combat-ready for
everyone on his team, but those suits were reserved for combat. For training,
the team had to settle for suits that did not fit properly, did not have full
functionality, or suffered annoying glitches. “Ok, yeah, the ship is
broke-dick, but you rebuilt it at Newark from nothing but moondust and happy thoughts,
right?”

“Uh, 
no
,
dumdum. Back then the ship had plenty of spare parts and the nano fabricator
tanks weren’t depleted. Even back then, it was a close thing. Remember, I had
to turn part of the forward hull into a particle accelerator to make materials
we needed.”

“Yeah, I do remember that. A big part of the ship
was off-limits until you could purge the radiation. The problem now is a lack
of spare parts?”

“The problem is a lack of 
everything
, Joe. We ransacked the junkyard in the Roach Motel for
all the gear I thought might be useful, and still we are dangerously thin on
replacements for critical components. We might be able to make some replacement
parts at Earth, but your industrial base is too primitive to manufacture many
of the items we need.”

“Oh, hell, Skippy, you should have thought of that
way back when captured this damned ship. The cargo holds had a bunch of Thuranin
stuff you said we didn’t need, so we discarded all of it.”

“Hey, don’t blame me! I never expected we would
still be flying this ship around years later. Really, I figured you monkeys
would be lucky to survive a single freakin’ month.”

I face-palmed myself and mumbled a reply. “Your
confidence in us is truly inspiring, Skippy.”

“I do what I can, Joe.”

“Ok, give me the bad news.”

 

 

After a debriefing about ship status that made my
head hurt, I contacted our engineer-physics expert Frank Muller for help. By
then, it was clear he and Simms were a couple and I was cool with that. No, I
was not just cool about it, I was 
thrilled

for Simms. She had never looked so happy and, I kind of had a soft spot in my
heart for our logistics officer who was now my second in command. It was great
to see her smiling, to watch her face light up when she saw Frank walk into the
galley. My only concern was the guy didn’t dump her and break her heart when we
got back to Earth. Somewhere along the way, I mentioned that fear to Skippy,
and he assured me they both seemed committed to their relationship. “Besides,
Joe, you don’t need to worry about it,” he had added.

“I don’t?” I remember asking.

“No. If he hurts Jennifer,” there was a sound like
gnashing of teeth, “there could be something 
unfortunate
 happening, if you know what I mean.”

I should have reprimanded him for making that
threat.

I didn’t.

Anyway, Muller met me in the galley, which was
pretty empty at that time of day. That explained the empty coffee pot, so I
made a fresh pot and had a mug ready for him when he came in.

“Thank you, Colonel. You wanted to talk with me?”

 
“Yeah,
thanks for coming. I, I need to learn, about physics and stuff like that.
Winging it and getting lucky isn’t good enough anymore, my ignorance is a
danger to the ship.”

“Learn about physics? What kind of physics?”

“The, uh,” I waved a hand in a vague gesture, “useful
kind?” I guessed. “Not, like, egghead string theory stuff. Practical stuff.”

He sighed. “Skippy tells me that a lot of the
‘practical stuff’,” he made air quotes with his fingers, “we think we know is
wrong.”

“Ok, then how about stuff we are sure of? Like,
physics we know because we can see it work? Um, like, if I drop this pen,” I
picked up a pen that had been lying unused on my desk forever, “and drop it,” I
released the writing instrument. “It falls.” The pen bounced off the deck and
rolled to a corner.

“Colonel, that is a 
bad
 example,” he grimaced. “On Earth, a pen would fall because of
gravity. Here aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
,
there is an artificial field that mimics the effects of gravity, but it is not
gravity and the math is subtly different.”

“Oh crap. Is there 
anything
 you can teach me?”

“Um, let me think. Would you be willing to start
with studying some background info? I have a copy of 
Astrophysics for People in a Hurry
 by Neal deGrasse Tyson.”

That made me frown. Was he dissing me? “Is that
like Astrophysics for Dummies?”

“Not quite,” he assured me with a smile.

“Ok, I’ll try it.” With our mission successfully
complete, I wanted to get back to Earth soon. Maybe I would not have time to
read a big, complicated book. “If I get through that book, you will teach me
more?”

“I am willing to try.”

“Good. Uh, one question; Skippy tells me the
language of physics is math. Is this going to involve a lot of hard math like
algebra and calculus?”

“Oh,” he threw his head back and laughed. “You
consider that to be 
hard
 math?”

“Uh, maybe?”

“Colonel, there is one thing I am certain of.”

“What’s that?”

“Well, heh heh,” he mimicked Skippy. “You are 
not
 going to like this.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTY THREE

 

“Hey, Joe,” Skippy announced in a nervous tone as
his avatar shimmered into life a couple hours later. That by itself was odd,
usually the hologram was fully formed in the blink of an eye.

“Hey yourself. Everything Ok with you?” I asked
with concern. Partly, it was concern for myself. We had just completed a truly
impossible mission, and I did not want anything harshing my inner buzz.

“No,” he shook his head sadly. “Everything is far
from Ok. We have a 
big
 problem. By
‘we’ I mean myself and every other intelligent creature in the Milky Way
galaxy. For the sake of amusement, I will include monkeys in the list of
intelligent beings.”

“Listen, if you’re going to warn me that trillions
of years from now, every proton in the galaxy will decay into quarks or some
other entropy thing, that is not fun-”

“I am not being funny, Joe, and this issue is not
something billions or trillions of years in the future. In fact, hmm, this
trouble began millions of years in the 
past
.”

The tone of his voice, more than what he said,
made me press the button under my desk to close my office door. “Holy shit.
Please don’t tell me we screwed up somehow and the Maxolhx are coming to Earth
despite all our efforts.”

“No, that is not the problem.”

“Oh,” an involuntary shudder struck me and I
didn’t bother trying to hide it. “Thank G-”

“The problem is much, 
much
 worse than a couple of puny Maxolhx ships.”

“P- 
puny
?
Maxolhx ships are- Oh, crap, you’d better tell me right now.” My imagination was
running wild. All the ‘attaboys’ we accumulated on our last mission could get
wiped away by a single ‘awshit’. Really, I could not complain about that; with
the Merry Band of Pirates, any kind of ‘awshit’ was an end-of-the-world thing. 

“Let me start at the beginning. When I downloaded
data from the first relay station to get the flightplans of the target ships, I
swept in a lot of irrelevant crap that I analyzed and discarded. One item that
was not irrelevant is a report from a Maxolhx geology group on a planet in the
Sagittarius Arm of the galaxy, eight thousand lightyears from Earth. That
planet originally had a Maxolhx colony, but they abandoned it long ago and
allowed the Thuranin to establish a presence there. It is not a hospitable
world and is not convenient to any Elder wormholes-”

“Wait. You got this hugely bad info from a relay
station like, weeks ago, and you’re just telling me about it 
now
?”

“Yes, but-”

“A 
lot 
of
shit has happened since then. We hit those ships after the last visit to a
relay station. Why the delay?”

“The delay is part of the problem, you 
dumdum
!” 

Skippy rarely shouted at me, so I stopped haranguing
him. “Sorry, Go ahead.”

“I got that info way back then, and I 
did
 read it, and I thought it was
nothing. Then, while analyzing my matrix, I noticed a discrepancy in the size
of files. That geology report was hidden from me until recently, I thought I
had read the entire file, but there was a lot I missed. Joe, something inside
me is concealing important information from my higher consciousness, and I
don’t know what is happening. I do think I know 
why
, and it scares the shit out of me.”

“Go on. What is this, uh, geology report?” There
was not any way I could imagine why a report about rocks or whatever on an
obscure planet could be a threat, certainly not a threat to the entire galaxy.
More likely, the threat was that worrying about a geology report was a sign of
Skippy’s mind cracking.

“The Maxolhx team there was confirming evidence
that was originally collected around three hundred thousand years ago. That
original team was conducting a survey to assess the stability of the tectonic
plates, to determine which areas would be suitable for placing long-term
settlements. What that team found was very interesting; that planet had a
native intelligent species, a type of six-legged mammal who built structures of
wood and stone and created crude tools from metal, primarily bronze. I say
‘had’ because that species became extinct.”

“Oh, shit.” There was only one reason why Skippy
would consider the extinction to be a threat to us now. “Like Newark?”

“Good guess, Joe. It was a bit like Newark, in
that the extinction of that species was not a natural phenomenon like an ice
age, nor was it a natural disaster like a big meteor. Based on evidence
collected by the Maxolhx, the star’s output suddenly increased over a period of
two weeks and cooked the planet. The additional heat and radiation was fatal to
all large land animals, including all the intelligent beings.”

“Ok, that is tragic, and if you think an Elder AI
was involved, that is very bad news. But, Skippy, we already knew an Elder AI
committed genocide on Newark. How is this different?”

“The different part is not what happened, it is 
when
 it happened. The Maxolhx
determined, and my analysis confirms, the intelligent species on that world was
wiped out approximately two million years 
before

the Elders left their physical form behind.”

“Oh my- you are sure?”

“I am certain of the timing. The dates may be off
slightly one way or the other, however there is no question that 
this
 genocide occurred while the Elders
were still here and active.”

“That blows my mind, Skippy.”

“Blows my mind too, Joe. There are only two
possibilities I can see, and here I could use your help.”

“Uh, what?”

“Your help. My mind is relentless logical, while
your thought process is completely disorganized and random. Thus, you may think
of something I missed.”

“Thank you?” I couldn’t decide whether he had
insulted me again, so I fell back on being polite.

“Like I said, two possibilities. There could be a
third party that was around while the Elders were active, which frightens me
because in that case, the Elders stood by and did nothing while this unknown
third party committed genocide. The other possibility is, I hesitate to mention
it because this terrifies me to my core.” His avatar was shaking. “The
possibility that the Elders themselves wiped out that primitive species.”

“Hey, before we go down that road, there is no way
that star heating up was just a fluke? Stars can be variable, I remember you
telling me that.”

“Stars can’t be variable like 
that
, Joe. Not as a one-time event. Plus, what I didn’t tell you is
another piece of evidence collected by the Maxolhx. They found a radiation
signature in rocks that is characteristic, like a fingerprint, of an Elder
technology for manipulating stars. The Elders often used that technology to
regulate stars that are variable, so their output is more even and conducive
for life on planets orbiting in the Goldilocks zone. That technology, if
abused, can make a star’s output increase or decrease significantly. There is
no question that the incident that wiped out that species was not natural, that
it was deliberate, and that it utilized Elder technology. A type of technology
that no other species has come close to developing. Joe, remember, the reason
we recovered a dropship from that moonbase was because the Maxolhx were using
that star system for experiments on manipulating stars. Other species want that
technology, only the Elders have it. 
Had

it.”

 
“Ok, Ok,” I
sat back in my chair despite my shaking hands, which I placed firmly on the
desk, pressing down so they stopped trembling. “I uh, I may have been wrong
about something, Skippy.”

“What is that?”

“Whether I should trust you not to go on a crazy
killing spree. No, that’s not what I meant. I trust you, maybe you can’t trust 
yourself
. Maybe there is something bad
inside you, something you were created with, something you can’t control.”

“That is what scares me too, Joe. I haven’t told
you the worst part yet.”

“There is something 
worse
?”

“Unfortunately, yes. When I read the Maxolhx
geology report, I noticed gaps in the data. That triggered something inside me to
release memories I did not know I had, that filled in the gaps. Joe,
 I already knew about that genocide
. I
have always known about it. I must have been programmed with that data, to know
it, to understand it. Whoever I am, at one point I was Ok with knowing an
intelligent species was erased from existence. Before you say something blandly
comforting like maybe I was provided that data to warn me against genocide,” he
said before I could open my mouth to say exactly that. “It makes no sense. Why
hide data from me? A warning is only useful if I was aware of it. No,” he shook
his head sadly, the admiral’s hat bobbing side to side. “I have to consider
that I am not who I thought I was, that 
everything

I thought I knew about the Elders is wrong or all lies. Joe, I don’t know if I
can live with knowing the 
Elders

committed genocide.”

“You don’t have to.”

“Huh? Did you not hear 
anything
 I said? Damn it, you-”

“You don’t

know
 anything, Skippy. You do not 
know

the Elders baked that planet and wiped out those six-legged cavemen.”

“Joe, do not try telling me an Elder AI could have
gone crazy back then and-”

“That is still a valid guess, Skippy. There could
also have been another intelligent, star-faring species in this galaxy at the
same time as the Elders.”

“Oh,” he scoffed. “Puh-
lease
, Joe. There is no evidence of that.”

“Until recently, you 
did
 think there might have been an unknown third party roaming the
galaxy and causing havoc. Maybe there is no evidence of this third party,
because the Elders destroyed them for being murderous assholes. A hostile third
party would explain why Elder starships were equipped with weapons, right?”

“Hmmm,” he pondered the question. “Possibly, 
maybe
. The problem is, there’s no
evidence an unknown third party ever existed.”

“Other than the wormhole network and a few
trinkets scattered around, there is little evidence the 
Elders
 ever existed, Skippy. Seriously, most species only know
about the Elders because the Rindhalu spent thousands of years scouring the
galaxy for information about who was here before them. What we 
think
 we know about the Elders is based
on guesses made by the Rindhalu, right?”

“I suppose you are right about that, Joe. Damn it!
I know even less now than when we started this stupid conversation.”

“That is my point, Skippy. Do not go getting all
depressed because of bad assumptions you make without actually knowing
anything, Ok?”

“Ok,” he grumbled, still unhappy. “Sorry to spoil
your good mood, Joe.”

“Hey, don’t worry about it,” I offered his avatar
a fist bump. “My good mood is going to last a long time, hopefully. Come on, we
did the impossible!”

“I guess so,” he sounded like Eeyore the donkey
from Winnie the Pooh. “Are you planning a party for the crew to celebrate?”

“I’m not, but I hope Simms is planning something.”

“Don’t tell her I said this, but she may be
planning a party. Joe, you do not seem as happy as you should be.”

“Ah,” I stared at the ceiling. “I’m worried about
Adams, about what’s been happening to her while we’ve been flying around the
galaxy. It’s great that we’re returning home from a successful mission, maybe
that gives us some leverage, you know? But we did steal a starship that
technically belonged to UNEF. Some of that fallout may hit Adams.”

He made a sad sniffling sound. “I am worried about
Margaret too, Joe,” he spoke in a whisper. “Dude, can I ask you a question, man
to man?”

With Skippy, it was more like man to 
can
, but I didn’t tell him that. “Sure,
go ahead.”

“Are you worried that Margaret might have found
someone while we were away, that she will be in a relationship when we get back
to Earth?”

“Whoa. 
Whoa
.
Damn it, if I knew your question was about that, I would have told you to-”

“She is not going to wait forever, Joe,” the
unusual sincere tone of his voice was more important than his words. Skippy was
not being his typical snarky asshole self.

“Listen, Skippy, drop the subject. You know what
regulations say about-”

“Reg- 
regulations
?”
He sputtered. “Dude, you committed mutiny and stole a starship. I think you are

waaaaaay
 past caring about regs. Jeez
Louise, that’s like being rescued from the Titanic, and complaining about their
wine selection. Get some perspective.”

“It’s not that easy, Skippy. The Army is a team,
and the Army is my 
family
 away from
home. I threw that all away, I’m not part of the team anymore. I’m a soldier.
It doesn’t feel right. Do me a favor, please? Let’s not talk about this.”

 

 

Simms did have a party planned, and we did party hearty
until well after midnight. Although the official supplies provided to the 
Flying Dutchman
 had not included any
alcohol, Skippy had sneakily gotten plenty of booze aboard by mislabeling
containers and hacking into logistics databases. When he had promised free beer
in his failed campaign for my job, he actually had not been lying about that.
There was plenty of beer aboard for our small crew, and wine and hard liquor.
His selections were unusual and interesting, like we had several bottles of a
German ginger-flavored liquor called ‘Ratzeputz’ that I never heard of. Also
tequila, which I avoided, but I did try ouzo which was a 
big
 mistake. From India was stuff called ‘arrack’ and there was
Chinese liquor called ‘baijiu’ that was like vodka.

Overall, I was a good boy, I did not get hammered.
Although, damn it, after accomplishing the truly impossible, I deserved to get
a little crazy. The reason I stayed mostly sober was my concern about Skippy,
if he started blubbering about how confused and depressed he was, I wanted to be
lucid to talk him down off the ledge. Also, because I was hoping to be
reinstated after we returned home, I needed the United States Army to know my
behavior had been exemplary.

And also, I was worried that if I drank too much,
the universe would use that as an opportunity to bite me in the ass.

 

 

So, the next morning, I was relatively awake and
alert for my duty shift on the bridge starting at 0800. Because Nagatha and
Skippy were still repairing battle damage, there was not much for the duty
officer to do, so I used the time to work on the after-action report.
Everything was quiet until a beer can decided to complicate my day.

“Hey, Joe,” Skippy’s avatar blinked on in front of
the main bridge display.

“
Gaaah
!”
I shrieked. “What the hell is that?” Instead of his usual Grand Admiral outfit,
the hologram was over five feet tall, with a weather-beaten face, long white
hair and a thin white beard. He was dressed in brown robes and at first I thought
he was a Jedi knight, but the robes were too simple and plain and he didn’t
have a lightsaber.

“Huh? Oh, sorry, Joe,” he looked down at himself.
“I forgot which avatar I was using. This is my holy man Skippyasyermuni. I’ve
been practicing for a promotional video.”

“Pro-
promotion
?
I thought you gave up that cult!”

“Club, Joe. It’s a club, remember? Abandoning my
followers now would be cruel, they need me and love me.”

“Love you? They don’t even know you. They don’t
know you’re just a scam,” I insisted without any proof that statement was true.
While at my sister’s apartment in Boston, I had researched his cult on the
internet and all the postings from followers of Skippyism, or whatever it is
called, were super enthusiastic. No one had anything but positive things to say
about how The Skippy had changed their lives, although it could be that Skippy
edited out all the negative comments.

“That is insulting, Joe, and you know it. Skippyasyermuni
delivers a solid value to his followers. Really, it’s more like an organized
crime gang than a cult, where- Um, unless being a gang is a bad thing.”

That drew a facepalm from me. “Oh boy,” I muttered
into my hand.

“Colonel Bishop?” Pope called from CIC. “Skippy
has a 
cult
 now?”

“Club. It’s an exclusive 
club
,” the beer can explained. “Except the only requirement to join
is giving me a big pile of cash, hee hee.”

“Pope,” I waved at him, “I will explain later, I
promise. There is nothing we can do about it now anyway. Skippy, could you
please switch back to your usual avatar?” Talking to him as a wizened old
mystical holy man was disturbing, especially because he still used his regular
snarky voice and was still an asshole.

 
“You wish
is granted, Joe,” the avatar shrank and returned to the Grand Admiral outfit.
“Hey, I was thinking that on our way home for a triumphant return celebration,
we should-”

“Celebration?”

“Yeah, you know, because of our, well, most 
my
, truly awesome accomplishments. I
expect there to be parades and fireworks at the very least.”

“Um, I hate to burst your bubble, but no one is
likely to be printing T-shirts for Skippy’s Awesomeness Tour.”

“Why not?!”

“Because, the UN is still pissed at me, unless
something has changed radically since we left. I have a whole lot of ’splainin’
to do when we get home. After the UN learns how incredibly successful we have
been, then 
maybe
 they will think
about not throwing me in prison forever. Crap, Skippy, I don’t expect to leave
the ship at all when we get back to Earth. If I go down to the surface, I am
likely to be arrested.”

“Well, 
that

sucks.”

“Hey, we’ll see about what happens. I am just not
counting on everyone holding hands and agreeing all is forgiven, you know?”

“This is
 so

unfair,” his avatar protested, hands on its hip in defiance.

“Yeah, I agree, and I’ll tell you something,” my
hands tightened on the armrest of the command chair. “I am 
not
 taking any more shit from dirtside politicians. I am not the
scared Army Specialist who left Earth anymore.”

“Oh. I meant it is not fair that 
my
 incredible accomplishments cannot be
celebrated and marveled at by the entire world of monkeys, but, um, sure, it’s
not fair to you either.”

“Asshole,” I muttered under my breath.

“Hey, the idiot monkeys on your home world are not

my
 people, Joe.”

“Good point.” I was mentally bracing for bad news,
because I could not think of anything that could delay our return flight. Our
fuel tanks had plenty to carry us home, and we could later take on more fuel at
Jupiter or Saturn or Neptune. Skippy had of course wanted to refuel by
extracting gas from Uranus, but only because that would give him a solid week
of amusement, so I had vetoed that idea. Seriously, why couldn’t the
astronomers of the world get together and agree on a new name for that stupid planet?
I read somewhere that it is the only planet named from Greek mythology, all the
others are named after Roman gods. There must be Roman gods who don’t already
have a planet named after them, how about something like ‘Minerva’ or- Ok,
whatever, you get my point. Or maybe we could sell naming rights to that planet
like sports teams do for their stadiums. I think ‘Chico’s Bail Bonds Planet’
would be a much better name than ‘Your 
Anus
’.
“Ok, what is it that should we do on our way home?”

“That thing we talked about, Joe,” he prodded me.

Sometimes, to my great annoyance, Skippy was the
King of No Context. He might have been referring to a conversation we had last
week, or back when I first met him. Time did not matter to the beer can. “Could
you be more specific?”

“
Ugh
.
You’re 
such
 a scatter-brain. Why do I
even bother? I work so hard and all you-”

“Skippy? A little context, please. The thing we
need to talk about, what is it?”

“Trying to find wormholes that can connect outside
the galaxy, you numbskull. I done told youze,” for some reason he adopted a
thick Noo Yawk accent, “we gots to find a special woimhole, youze know?”

“Oh, yeah.” Even through all the excitement of our
last mission, I had not forgotten about my idea for setting up a beta site, but
I had forgotten the minor detail that we had no certain way of actually getting
outside the galaxy. “We can do that on our way home?”

“Yup.” The main display switched to a star map,
with our current course outlined in yellow. There was now an alternate course
represented by a blue line. “We can alter our course slightly to go through this
wormhole here,” a wormhole along the blue line began to blink. “As we are
waiting to go through, I can ask the network whether that wormhole can connect
to any of the potential sites you want to explore.”

“You can do that without actually screwing with
this wormhole, right? No one will notice what you’re doing?”

“Correct. All I will be doing is asking the
network a couple simple questions.”

“Is this new course any more dangerous? It looks
longer.”

“It is longer, it will delay our arrival at Earth
by three days. The territory this route passes through is actually more remote,
we are overall less likely to encounter other ships by taking this alternate
route.”

“Three more days, Colonel?” Beazer asked from the
pilot seat. “I must remind you, the ship is not in good condition. We have a
leaky reactor, Sir.”

“I understand that, Beazer. Bringing home news
that we can establish a backup site might be the difference between Earth’s governments
being happy to see us, or wanting to throw us in prison.” After I told Simms
about my idea for a Beta site, I had mentioned it to a couple other people,
mostly on the science team. Word had gotten out, which was Ok, it was not
supposed to be a secret.

Beazer did not need to think about that. “I am not
in favor of the prison option.”

“What about it, Skippy? Will another three days of
operation pose a danger of the ship falling apart?”

“No, because although the alternate course is
longer in terms of distance, the ship will perform fewer jumps. The additional
distance is from traveling through Elder wormholes. Fewer jumps creates less of
a strain on this broke-dick Frankenstein ship.”

“Then we do that,” I decided. “Just in case you
don’t get a favorable answer from this wormhole, is there another one anywhere
near the alternate route?”

“You spoiled my surprise, Joe. Yes, this wormhole
here,” another light began blinking on the display, this light was not along
the blue line. “Is close enough that it would take us less than one additional
day to check it out. The course is more complicated,” the nice blue line became
a back-and-forth squiggle, with us having to jump backwards more than once.
“However, that does give us another option.”

“Outstanding.” For a moment, I made a silent groan
because I knew I would have to clear the course change with Chotek, then I
remembered my favorite diplomat and bureaucrat was no longer aboard the ship.
In a way, I missed him. Not enough to want him aboard, but I had grown to
respect the guy for who he was. Plus, he had warned Skippy about UNEF trying to
seize the ship. Wherever he was, I hoped he was being treated well. “Beazer,
Edwards, load the alternate course in the navigation system, so we’re ready to
jump when the ship is back online.”

 

 

At the first wormhole, Skippy did not get the
answer we wanted. We were still waiting for that wormhole’s event horizon to
emerge near us, when he gave me the bad news. “Hmmm, Joe, it appears there are regular
wormholes, heavy-duty wormholes, and 
super
-duty
wormholes. Only the latter type can connect across more than eighty thousand
lightyears.”

“Fantastic. Are any of these super-duty wormholes
near us?”

“Unfortunately, no. They appear to be rare, the
local sector only contains three, from what I can tell from the data I got from
the network. None of the super-duty wormholes are active, they have all been
dormant for a very long time. The last active super-duty wormhole leading
outside the galaxy shut down while the Rindhalu were exploring the galaxy and
beyond, I suspect the shutdown of that wormhole may have trapped a group of
Rindhalu way out there in the Greater Magellanic Cloud. We certainly do not
want to go there.”

“Do you at least know- Sorry, I shouldn’t have
said ‘at least’, you only know what the network is willing to tell you. Do you
know where some of these super-duty wormholes are? Not the one leading to
Magellan or whatever?”

“Yes, and that is the good news. I do know where
three of them are, and only one of them is on the star charts provided by the
Rindhalu. Joe, the other two are not known to 
any
 other species. We can go to those two wormholes safely and use
them for decades, before any nearby star system detects the gamma radiation of
them being activated.”

“That is good news, I think. How long would it
take for us to get to one of these hidden super-duties?”

“Too long, Joe, they are both on the other side of
Earth from here. It would be best for us to stop at your home planet on the
way. Wait! Before you grumble about it, I do have the answer you want. Both of
those super wormholes are able to connect far outside the galaxy, 
and
 I can establish those connections
using our wormhole controller. If your goal is to tell authorities on Earth
that we can transport a human population far beyond the reach of any species in
this galaxy, you very likely can do that.”

“Wheeeew,” I breathed a sigh of relief. “Thank
you, Skippy. That is like my Get Out of Jail Free card, you know?”

“I’ll take your word about that.”

 

No more detours, we set course straight for Earth,
which meant going through the local wormhole again. “Hey, Skippy, let Nagatha
try opening the wormhole this time, using the controller module power tap
thing, Ok?”

“Joe, while I have high confidence in the device I
slapped together with duct tape and two Elder components that were never
designed to function as a unit, I must point out that each time you use it
presents a small but non-zero risk of the thing wearing out. Just sayin’, you
know?”

“Ok, yeah, good point,” I mentally berated myself
for not considering that. “Nagatha, sorry, we can’t take that risk.”

“I understand completely, Joseph,” our ship’s
resident AI replied. “I am confident that, in an emergency, I could operate the
wormhole.”

“Good. Then, uh, Skippy, do your thing. Take us
home.”

 

We went through the wormhole and Skippy made it go
dormant again, which, rather than attracting unwanted attention from aliens,
would now help sell our cover story. I thought that was super-duper cool.

With no missions to prepare for and our arrival at
Earth looming large in everyone’s minds, we spent most of our time getting our
dress uniforms in tip-top shape, cleaning the ship until the interior surfaces
were bright and shiny, and writing after-action reports. Everyone was determined
to present our story in the most positive fashion to UNEF and their home
governments. Including me. My own report included concerns and lessons learned,
but was heavy on praise for the team’s performance, and highlighted my own contributions
to accomplishing a mission even I thought was impossible. Hey, if I did not
point out what a great job I had done, I sure couldn’t count on UNEF doing it
for me. 

“Hey, Skippy,” I called while adding positive
items to the report. “Now that we have that second wormhole controller module
out there, we have a backup in case the one the 
Dutchman
 carries gets busted or something. Bonus!”

“Uh huh, yeah, it would be a bonus, except that
second module is on the 
far
 end of
the local wormhole, you dumdum. We can’t access it from here. If the module
aboard the 
Dutchman
 suffers a
problem, we will be trapped on this end, with no way to reopen the wormhole.
Duh.”

“Shit! Why the hell didn’t you tell me we should
put the second module on this end?”

“Because you never asked me if that mattered.
Jeez, Joe, you have to use your own brain once in a while. We’re screwed now,
no way to move the thing. The adjustments I made, so it can operate
independently on a timer, render it unable to reconnect. If I cut its connection
to move it, the thing would never work properly again. Bringing the module through
the wormhole would sever its connection to the network, to anticipate your next
moronic question,” he added with smug satisfaction.

“Crap! That was going to my final sweetener to
offer UNEF, so they don’t throw me in jail.”

“Joe, jail is not what you should be worrying
about.”

“That is easy for 
you
 to say.”

“Listen, dumdum, what I meant is, you should be
worried that our mission is 
over
.”

Hearing that startled me. “What?”

“Think about it. The Kristang are not coming to
Earth. Now, neither are the Ruhar, the Thuranin or even the Maxolhx. Your
homeworld is safe. It’s over, the war is over for humans, I mean the humans on
Earth. At least, it’s over for a couple hundred years. Your monkey leadership
will pester me endlessly to help them build starships so they can defend the
planet hundreds of years from now, but what are 
you
 going to do, now that UNEF no longer needs you to save the
world again?”

“Shit. Skippy, I had not thought about that.”

“You 
should

think about it. By the time your homeworld is in danger again, you will be long
dead. Joe, you need to consider what to do with the rest of your life, because
this,” he took off his hat and waved it to indicate the ship around us, “is
likely over for you.”

 

Because we were finally on our way home, I decided
I needed a haircut, so I would at least look like an Army soldier instead of a
renegade pirate. Grooming standards were relaxed aboard the 
Dutchman
 and I had let my hair get
longer than regulation. Our special operations troops were allowed to grow
beards and shaggy hair back on Earth, so they could blend in with civilians,
and Smythe saw no reason to mess with traditions just because we were flying
around the galaxy in a stolen alien ship. When we were on the planet
Gingerbread in the Roach Motel, I had made a point of keeping my hair in a
regulation cut, to boost the crew’s morale. If they had seen me go native by
looking like a hippy, they might think I had subconsciously given up on ever
getting home.

Anyway, when we had a full crew, there were a
couple amateur barbers aboard, and now I had no idea who could cut my hair.
“Hey, Skippy. I need a haircut. You got any suggestions?”

“Well, I suggest you get 
all
 of your hairs cut, not just one,” he snorted at one of the
world’s oldest and lamest jokes. “Go to sickbay and we’ll take care of it.”

I went to sickbay, figuring one of the SpecOps
people who had been training as medics must have a side job cutting hair. All
the special operations troops had been trained to perform battlefield medicine,
and many of them had taken the opportunity to learn how to use the advanced
Thuranin medical gear in our sickbay.

So, I walked into the sickbay while looking down
at the tablet I was carrying, revising the official report that I hoped would
persuade the Army that I should be given a second chance. “Hey, I need a- 
Gaaaah
!”

The tablet went flying out of my hands, bouncing
off the ceiling and ricocheting off the near wall to go skidding across the
floor.

Anastacia was waiting in the sickbay, wearing a
nurse’s uniform. She was not wearing shapeless pastel scrubs, she,
 it
, was wearing a sexy nurse outfit
like women wear at a Halloween party. Anastacia turned toward me, I held out a
shaky hand for silence. “Skippy! What is-”

I was interrupted. Not by Skippy. By Anastacia.
Only it was not Anastacia’s voice. 
Nagatha
’s
voice was in the sexbot’s body. “Well, helloooo, Joseph. I hear you need a
haircut, dear?”

“Ah!” I literally clutched my chest and backed
away, tripping over the tablet and falling against the wall as the naughty
nurse walked toward me, her hips swaying. “Nagatha! Wha- what?”

“Oh, I am sorry, I thought Skippy told you. I
loaded part of my consciousness into this unit.”

“Ok, uh, why?” I asked, before realizing I might
not want to know the answer.

“Partly to test my ability for adapting the
programming of semi-autonomous mobile units,” Nagatha’s voice was somehow a
breathy, sensuous version of her usual nice-elderly-aunt tones and it creeped
me out. “Mostly, I was concerned that this bot was not being utilized
efficiently. And,” she gave me a slow, sexy wink, “I wished to prove Skippy was
wrong.” The sexbot’s fingers wiggled in the air. “I have proven that this unit
is capable of performing all except the most delicate medical procedures. As
you know, Skippy programmed these fingers to-”

“Yeah, I know how they were programmed, thank you
very much.”

“Come in, Joseph,” Nagatha crooked a finger at me
in a gesture she might not have intended as alluring. Unless she had
reprogrammed the entire system, the bot;’ motor controls were still set up for
a different purpose, if you know what I mean. “Your hair is too long, you 
naughty
 boy,” she had an index finger
wagging in a scolding gesture. “Nurse Nagatha will take care of-”

“Oh that’s not 
right
,”
I gasped.

She put one hand on a hip and pouted at me. “What
is wrong, Joseph?”

“This is disturbing on 
so
 many levels,” I backed out of the compartment, stepping on my
tablet and not caring. “I, uh- thank you.”

“Joseph, I am sorry, I did not anticipate you
would react this way to my personality being in this bot. I can return Anastacia’s
original programming, if you prefer that she cut your hair-”

 
“My hair is
just fine.” When I backed through the doorway, I spun and walked away fast as I
could to my cabin, where I locked myself in. Skippy probably was waiting for me
to say something, so I kept quiet to avoid giving him the satisfaction. In my
tiny bathroom, I cut my own hair with a small pair of scissors, and- Let’s just
say it looked like I lost a fight with a weedwhacker. My hope was the Army
would be too busy laughing to remember that I committed mutiny and stole a
starship.

That’s my story and I’m sticking to it. 

 

Over the next couple days, I thought about what
Skippy said about our mission being over. If that were true, what 
was 
I going to do with my life? Even if
we still needed to conduct recon to make sure no one else was threatening Earth,
UNEF did not need me to fly every mission. They probably did not want me flying
any missions at all.

What about my career in the Army? My original
purpose of signing up for the military was complicated. I wanted to get out of
my hometown, I wanted to serve my country, and I wanted money for college so I
wouldn’t be buried by student loan debt. Looking back, if aliens had never
invaded Earth and I had finished my enlistment before getting killed in Nigeria
or Venezuela or wherever, what would I be doing? It’s not like I had any idea
what I wanted to study in college, so maybe I would have done something else
while deciding what to do with my life. I am not a big fan of wasting four or
five years of my life in school to get some worthless degree and still not have
a plan for a career.

Anyway, aliens did invade, and I became a colonel.
With our secret unraveling on Earth, the brass probably could not take a public
relations hit by busting me back down to sergeant, but after some of the shit I
had done, the Army would not be eager to see me continuing service. The United
States Army is a team, and The Big Green Machine succeeds because soldiers act
together as a team, for the good of the team. Hotshot cowboys are not
encouraged in the Army, and with a few exceptions I still felt guilty about, I
agreed with that philosophy. If Earth truly was safe in the long term or even
medium term, the Army would probably be very grateful if I quietly resigned and
disappeared from the public’s attention.

The prospect of the fighting being over made me
think about how Army officers must have felt when WWII was winding down. They
were happy that the killing and dying and suffering would soon be over, and
they were looking forward to seeing their families again, but some of them had
mixed feelings, because all they had known for years was war. All I had known
since Columbus Day was fighting against aliens, and my home planet being in
mortal danger. The people of Earth being safe was great, no question about it.
My problem was, I had gotten used to being useful, to doing something
important. What was I going to do with the rest of my life, if I was going to
be stuck on Earth?

Ah, I could worry about that later, I did not really
believe our mission was over.

Or maybe I just didn’t 
want
 to believe it.

“Hey Joe,” Skippy’s avatar popped to life on my
desk. “You look unhappy? What’s wrong? You should be thrilled! As much as you
can be thrilled, considering that no matter what happens, you are a filthy
monkey at the bottom of the development ladder.”

“Yeah, I guess so,” I paused the game I had been
playing and losing. Really, I had not been so much playing the game as staring
at my laptop display, doing nothing.

“You 
guess

so? Humanity is safe for hundreds of years because of you! Well, you and a
barrel of monkeys. And me. Mostly me, really, but you monkeys can take a teeny
bit of the credit. The Maxolhx have no reason to ever go to the squalid slum
you call home, and because of 
your

genius idea- If you ever tell anyone I called you a genius I will deny the
whole thing-” 

“Of course,” that did make me smile.

“Because of your idea, aliens will ignore the
gamma rays coming from Earth’s wormhole when those photons reach sensors sixty
lightyears from the far end of the wormhole. You only have to worry about
aliens detecting radio and TV transmissions that show all the Kristang here got
wiped out, and a Thuranin star carrier has been regularly visiting your planet.
There is nothing we can do about that, but maybe no one out there will be
paying attention to those faint signals from Earth because, hey, why would
they? Now, you will be going back home with the good news that you have a good
idea to set up a Beta site. Your United Nations certainly should be thrilled
about it. Thrilled enough to forget about all the incredibly bonehead shit
you’ve done. Maybe not forget, but they could agree to sweep your past under
the rug. Neat, huh?”

“Yeah, neat. Skippy, my problem is you may be
right about the war being over for us. For me. That is great, I am happy about
that.”

“You don’t 
sound

happy,” he observed, hands on his little hips.

“I’m wondering, what can I do next? I can’t
continue serving as an Army officer in peacetime, the Army can’t just forget
about me stealing a starship.”

“Well, um,” he took off his ginormous hat and
scratched his chrome-plated skull. “What 
can

you do? That is a good question. I mean, you are not really good at anything in
particular, so-”

“Thanks so much for boosting my confidence.”

“You could try that life of crime thing I
suggested.”

“Let’s try something else first, Ok?”

“Ok, Ok,” he jammed the hat back on his head and
rubbed his chin. “What can Joey do? I suppose appearing as a side show at a
carnival is out?”

“That would not be my first choice, no.”

“Ooh! Ooh! Hey, I got it! The only useful thing
you’ve done out here is dreaming up whacky ideas to solve impossible problems,
right?”

“I think I’ve done a little more than, that,
Skippy.”

“It’s cute you think that. How about you use your
one so-called ‘talent’ on Earth, to solve 
their

impossible problems?”

That thought perked me up. “Like what?” Crap, I
hoped he did not mention something truly impossible like ‘peace in the Middle
East’.

“How about this, Joe; can you find a way to
achieve humanity’s long-held dream?”

“Uh, what is that?”

“Combining,” he lowered his voice to a whisper, ‘
Taco Tuesdays
 with 
Thirsty Thursdays
.”

“Oh, shit.”

“See? If you could do that, all of monkeykind
would rejoice.”

“Yeah, that, that is really super helpful, Skippy.
Thanks a bunch,” I sighed.

“Well,” he sniffed, upset that I didn’t embrace
his idea. “While you are moping around feeling sorry for yourself, stop playing
that stupid game and do something educational. I just loaded a crossword puzzle
on your laptop.”

“Um, Skippy, this crossword is all in French. I
don’t read French.”

“Yeah, so? You suck at crosswords anyway, you
think that will make a difference?”

He had a point. Oh, hell, I could always look up
the words in a translator. I didn’t have anything else to do before we reached
Earth.

 

We arrived back in Earth orbit, only seven hundred
miles off target after a very long jump. The good news is, we didn’t emerge in
the middle of the Pacific Ocean, vaporize the ship and cause a massive tidal
wave. I counted that as a major win. “This is 
Colonel
,” I emphasized my rank, “Bishop of the UNS 
Flying Dutchman
,” I reported with a
smile that was reflected in my voice. “Returning from a successful mission. The
two Maxolhx ships have been destroyed. Details are in the report that-”

“Colonel Bishop,” a red-faced US Air Force general
I did not recognize broke into my prepared monologue. “The President wants to
speak with you. 
Immediately
.”

Oh, crap. What could it be this time? “About, uh,
what, Sir?”

“This.”

The general’s face was replaced by an image of a
crowd carrying signs and marching down a street in some generic American city,
they spanned sidewalk to sidewalk and stretched back a full city block.

At first, I blinked, wondering why I should care
about yet another group protesting the latest thing they had decided to take
offense about. Then I realized they were all wearing the same color shirts or
jackets or robes.

Silver.

The camera zoomed in on signs carried by the
people in front of the march. The signs were blue, with a glowing silver ball
on top, from which silver rays spread outward. The bottom half had silver
lettering.

Skippy loves
us all. Don’t be a dick
.

 

THE END

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

Author’s
note:

Thank you reading one of my books! It took years
to write my first three books, I had a job as a business manager for an IT
company so I wrote at night, on weekends and during vacations. While I had many
ideas for books over the years, the first one I ever completed was ‘Aces’ and I
sort of wrote that book for my at-the-time teenage nieces. If you read ‘Aces’,
you can see some early elements of the Expeditionary Force stories; impossible
situations, problem-solving, clever thinking and some sarcastic humor.

Next I wrote a book about humanity’s program to develop
faster-than-light spaceflight, it was an adventure story about astronauts
stranded on an alien planet and trying to warn Earth about a dangerous flaw in
the FTL drive. It was a good story, and I submitted it to traditional
publishers back in the mid-2000s. And I got rejections. My writing was ‘solid’,
which I have since learned means publishers can’t think of anything else to say
but don’t want to insult aspiring writers. The story was too long, they wanted
me to cut it to a novella and change just about everything. Instead of
essentially scrapping the story and starting over, I threw it out and tried
something else.

Columbus Day and Ascendant were written together
starting around 2011, I switched back and forth between writing those two
books. The idea for Ascendant came to me after watching the first Harry Potter
movie, one of my nieces asked what would have happened to Harry Potter if no
one ever told him he is a wizard? Hmm, I thought, that is a very good
question.... So, I wrote Ascendant.

In the original, very early version of Columbus
Day, Skippy was a cute little robot who stowed away on a ship when the Kristang
invade Earth, and he helps Joe defeat the aliens. After a year trying to write
that version, I decided it sounded too much like a Disney Channel movie of the
week, and it, well, it sucked. Although it hurt to waste a year’s worth of
writing, I threw away that version and started over. This time I wrote an
outline for the entire Expeditionary Force story arc first, so I would know
where the overall story is going. That was a great idea and I have stuck to
that outline (with minor detours along the way).

With Aces, Columbus Day and Ascendant finished
by the summer of 2015 and no publisher interested, my wife suggested that I:

1)
    
Try
self-publishing the books in Amazon

2)
    
For
the love of God please shut up about not being able to get my books published

3)
    
Clean
out the garage

It took six months of research and revisions to
get the three books ready for upload to Amazon. In addition to reformatting the
books to Amazon’s standards, I had to buy covers and set up an Amazon account
as a writer. When I clicked the ‘Upload’ button on January 10
th
 2016
my greatest hope was that somebody, anybody out there would buy ONE of my books
because then I could be a published author. After selling one of each book, my
goal was to make enough money to pay for the cover art I bought online (about
$35 for each book).

For that first half-month of January 2016,
Amazon sent us a check for $410.09 and we used part of the money for a nice
dinner. I think the rest of the money went toward buying new tires for my car.

At the time I uploaded Columbus Day, I had the
second book in the series SpecOps about halfway done, and I kept writing at
night and on weekends. By April, the sales of Columbus Day were at the point
where my wife and I said “Whoa, this could be more than just a hobby”. At that
point, I took a week of vacation to stay home and write SpecOps 12 hours a day
for nine days. Truly fun-filled vacation! Doing that gave me a jump-start on
the schedule, and SpecOps was published at the beginning of June 2016. In the
middle of that July, to our complete amazement, we were discussing whether I
should quit my job to write full-time. That August I had a “life is too short”
moment when a family friend died and then my grandmother died, and we decided I
should try this writing thing full-time. Before I gave notice at my job, I
showed my wife a business plan listing the books I planned to write for the
next three years, with plot outlines and publication dates. This assured my
wife that quitting my real job was not an excuse to sit around in shorts and
T-shirts watching sci fi movies ‘for research’.

During the summer of 2016, R.C. Bray was offered
Columbus Day to narrate, and I’m sure his first thought was “A book about a
talking beer can? Riiiight. No.” Fortunately, he thought about it again, or was
on heavy-duty medication for a bad cold, or if he wasn’t busy recording the
book his wife expected him to repaint the house. Anyway, RC recorded Columbus
Day, went back to his fabulous life of hanging out with movie stars and hitting
golf balls off his yacht, and probably forgot all about the talking beer can.

When I heard RC Bray would be narrating Columbus
Day, my reaction was “THE RC Bray? The guy who narrated The Martian? Winner of
an Audie Award for best sci fi narrator? Ha ha, that is a good one. Ok, who is
really narrating the book?”

Then the Columbus Day audiobook became a huge
hit. And is a finalist for an ‘Audie’ Award as Audiobook of the Year!

When I got an offer to create audio versions of
the Ascendant series, I was told the narrator would be Tim Gerard Reynolds. My
reaction was “You mean some other guy named Tim Gerard Reynolds? Not the TGR
who narrated the Red Rising audiobooks, right?”

Clearly, I have been very fortunate with
narrators for my audiobooks. To be clear, they chose to work with me, I did not
‘choose’ them. If I had contacted Bob or Tim directly, I would have gone into
super fan-boy mode and they would have filed for a restraining order. So,
again, I am lucky they signed onto the projects.

So far, there is no deal for Expeditionary Force
to become a movie or TV show, although I have had inquiries from producers and
studios about the ‘entertainment rights’. From what people in the industry have
told me, even if a studio or network options the rights, it will be a
loooooooooong time before anything actually happens. I will get all excited for
nothing, and years will go by with the project going through endless cycles with
producers and directors coming aboard and disappearing, and just when I have
totally given up and sunk into the Pit of Despair, a miracle will happen and
the project gets financing! Whoo-hoo. I am not counting on it. On the other
hand, Disney is pulling their content off Netflix next year, so Netflix will be
looking for new original content...

Again, Thank YOU for reading one of my books.
Writing gives me a great excuse to avoid cleaning out the garage.

 

Contact the author at 
craigalanson@gmail.com

https://www.facebook.com/Craig.Alanson.Author/

https://twitter.com/CraigAlanson?lang=en

 

Go to craigalanson.com for blogs and ExForce logo merchandise
including T-shirts, patches, sticker, hats, and coffee mugs

 

 

The Expeditionary Force series

Book 1: Columbus Day

Book 2: SpecOps

Book 3: Paradise

Book 3.5: Trouble on Paradise novella

Book 4: Black Ops

Book 5: Zero Hour

Book6: Mavericks

Book7: Renegades

Book8: Armageddon - coming summer 2019

Book9: Valkyrie – coming late 2019