Table of Contents

CHAPTER ONE

CHAPTER TWO

CHAPTER THREE

CHAPTER FOUR

CHAPTER FIVE

CHAPTER SIX

CHAPTER SEVEN

CHAPTER EIGHT

CHAPTER NINE

CHAPTER TEN

CHAPTER ELEVEN

CHAPTER TWELVE

CHAPTER THIRTEEN

CHAPTER FOURTEEN

CHAPTER FIFTEEN

CHAPTER SIXTEEN

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN

CHAPTER NINETEEN

CHAPTER TWENTY

CHAPTER TWENTY ONE

CHAPTER TWENTY TWO

CHAPTER TWENTY THREE

CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR

CHAPTER TWENTY FIVE

CHAPTER TWENTY SIX

CHAPTER TWENTY SEVEN

CHAPTER TWENTY EIGHT

CHAPTER TWENTY NINE

CHAPTER THIRTY

CHAPTER THIRTY ONE

CHAPTER THIRTY TWO

CHAPTER THIRTY THREE

CHAPTER THIRTY FOUR

CHAPTER THIRTY FIVE

CHAPTER THIRTY SIX

CHAPTER THIRTY SEVEN

CHAPTER THIRTY EIGHT

CHAPTER THIRTY NINE

CHAPTER FORTY

CHAPTER FORTY ONE

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER ONE

 

Ambassador-at-large Woolsey took a pen out of the
inner breast pocket of his immaculate suit jacket, then smoothed the jacket
lapel so it would lie flat, without an annoying wrinkle. The pen was placed
precisely parallel to the legal pad of paper, with the tip and end of the pen
at the same distances from the top and bottom of the paper. Woolsey poured a
glass of water from the pitcher in the center of the table, and set down the
glass so it was lined up with the pen. All was properly in order. No. The pen was
closer to the top of the paper pad than to the bottom. A slight nudge moved it
into position, and-

“Woolsey,” his exasperated colleague from
Indonesia sighed, getting nods from the representatives from Brazil and South
Africa. “Can we begin, or must you fiddle with that damned pen for the
remainder of the day?”

“My apologies, Ambassador 
Irawan
,” Woolsey nodded toward his esteemed colleague. “The purpose
of this meeting is to consider actions that were taken without proper
preparation and planning. I believe 
we

should not begin our discussion in a slap-dash fashion.” His lips curled
downward at the word ‘slap-dash’, as if that were the ultimate sin. With a
fingertip, he nudged the pen ever so slightly.

“It is just a 
pen
,”
the representative from South Africa groaned. She had been in enough meeting
with the fussy American to know that is just the way the man was, and nothing
could be done about it other than complaining.

“Very well,” Woolsey interlaced his fingers and
placed his hands on the table, the tips of his pinkie fingers barely touching
the unmarked pad of paper. “We are here to-”

“Hey! Chowderheads!” A voice came from Woolsey’s
pen, and all four around the table stared at it in shock. They knew that voice.

Though he was startled, Woolsey’s inner emotions
were not evident in his mannerisms. He lowered his head to examine the pen from
the side, without touching the traitorous device. “You are the being called
‘Skippy’, I presume?”

“You presume correctly. That is the only thing you
have been right about today.”

Woolsey saw the others were looking to 
him
 to converse with the alien AI. It
would have been nice to think the others valued his leadership skills, but the
truth was, they blamed him for bringing that pen into a secure conference room.
He created the mess, he had to clean it up. “How are you speaking from my 
pen
?” His composure slipped momentarily
at the unforgivable loss of control. The meeting was in a conference room in
the basement of a building, with no electronics present. Power to the electrical
outlets had been cut off, indeed the wires had been severed. 
Light
 came from LED bulbs in battery-powered
lamps on the table. Every precaution had been taken to avoid being overheard by
the AI aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
,
yet Skippy had managed to infiltrate the secure facility. And it was Woolsey’s
fault. “This is my favorite pen!” He had been given that pen by a president of
the United States, nearly twenty years before. When not in use, it was kept in
a locked drawer, in his office desk at home.

“Oh, I do like to keep 
some
 secrets,” Skippy chuckled. “Don’t worry, the components will
dissolve into 
nano dust
 when we are done
with this 
delightful
 conversation.
Your pen will be fine.”

Woolsey recovered his composure. “While we
appreciate your input, this meeting is-”

“This meeting is a collection of brain-dead
bureaucrats, wasting time with a bunch of blah blah 
buh
-
lah
, while the adults
are doing something useful,” Skippy scorned.

“We are here to consider whether Joseph Bishop
should continue in command of the 
Flying

Dutchman
,” Woolsey stated calmly,
returning to his unflappable nature. “While his inventiveness has proven to be,
at least 
temporarily
, useful in the
past, we now face a new paradigm. Earth is safe for the next-”

“Earth is 
safe
?”
Skippy snorted. “This just in,” he said in his best smarmy Ron Burgundy news
anchor voice. “We have a breaking news flash! The good citizens of Dayton Ohio 
might
 disagree with you about them being
safe, 
duh
.”

“Yes. That is hopefully a minor-”

“Seriously? You idiots represent the governments
of this mudball, and you are basing your decisions on 
hoping
 your world is safe?”

“Regardless,” Woolsey lost a tiny bit of his cool.
“Bishop has proven to be impulsive and reckless. His action of stealing the 
Flying Dutchman
 proves that-”

“No. I’ll tell you what 
really
 happened,” Skippy’s voice dripped with scorn. “The Universe
said: ‘I am sending two of the most powerful warships in the galaxy to blow up
your planet. You monkeys not only have to stop those ships, 
you have
 to make the Maxolhx think they 
did
 go to Earth, found nothing
interesting, then disappeared under circumstances that are not at all
suspicious. Oh, and even if by some miracle you succeed, in less than sixty
years, aliens will discover your local wormhole is not really dormant anyway.
The Universe asked: What do you ignorant monkeys think of 
that
’?” Skippy paused to let that sink in. “You useless ninnies ran
around flinging your hands in the air, like a little girl who got a bee in her
hair, screeching ‘
We surrender, we
surrender’
! You know what Joe Bishop said?”

Skippy didn’t wait for an answer.

“Joe Bishop said: Hey, Universe:
 Hold my beer
.”

There was silence around the table. Heads bowed
slightly. Perhaps they were considering what the alien AI had said. Perhaps
they were just a little bit ashamed.

“So,” Skippy made a sound like he was taking a
breath. “Any questions?”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWO

 

I managed to swing my legs through the hatch, and
get into Skippy’s new escape pod mancave without 
wacking
 my head. Until I sat in the too-small seat, and 
wacked
 my head on the too-low ceiling anyway.
Before I could speak, I noticed a new decoration attached to the far dome of
the pod. A gaudy, white leather belt with gold decorations. “Uh, what’s that?”

“It’s a gift from Brock Steele, Joe. It arrived on
the supply ship this morning.”

“Uh, what do 
you

need with a belt?”

“Ugh,” he sighed. “You are 
such
 an uncultured cretin. Look at it closely, knucklehead. Hey!
Don’t 
touch
 it with your filthy
monkey hands!” He screeched.

“Ok, it’s a white leather belt. So?”

“It’s not 
a

white leather belt, numbskull. That is an ‘Egyptian’ belt that Elvis Presley wore
in concert, with one of his famous jumpsuits.”

“Oh. Was that during his ‘Fat Elvis’ period?”

“If you can’t talk respectfully about the King of
Rock and Roll, you can right leave now.” Man, he sounded genuinely pissed at
me.

“Sorry. 
Like

you said, I’m an uncultured cretin. Huh. You mean this isn’t a reproduction?
This is the real thing?”

“Of 
course

it is!” He gasped. “Do you think Brock Steele would send me a 
fake
 as a sign of his undying admiration
for me?”

“I guess not. How did 
he
 get it?”

“He’s a billionaire, Joe.”

“Yeah, you keep reminding me.”

“And a fighter pilot.”

“Uh huh.”

“Astronaut, too. Also he was just named People
Magazine’s Sexiest Man of Year, 
again
.
Plus, there is a rumor, which I can confirm by the way, that Brock will receive
the Presidential Medal of Freedom, for his heroic actions during the Dayton
Incident.”

“Hero- What?” I sputtered. “The Merry Band of
Pirates saved the freakin’ day, all he did was-”

“Joe, Joe, Joe. This continued jealousy is not-”

“
Jealous
?
Skippy, I met the guy. He puts his pants on one leg at a time, just like I do.”

“Sure, except millions of women around the world
would 
love to
 get those pants off him.
Meanwhile, your shower thinks the two of you should see other people,” he
giggled.

“Crap. Can we drop the subject?”

“You started it.”

I had lost track of the conversation, but I was
pretty sure he had started the snarkiness. As if that mattered. “It is a very
nice belt, and the Merry Band of Pirates are proud to have it aboard our ship.”

“Hm,” he sniffed. “That’s better. What do you want
to waste my time with now?”

“I want to know how your project is going.”

The fake innocent tone in his voice did not fool
me for a second. “How is what going, Joe?”

“You know what I mean, you little shithead. Can
you really finish putting Nagatha back together again?” Since the revival of
our ship’s AI, it had been a slow process bringing her back to full operation.
Three times, she had to go temporarily dormant to prevent her matrix from
deteriorating, while Skippy made adjustments to the 
kludged
-together, mismatched collection of alien components that
comprised the substrate she lived in. Nagatha was still officially optimistic
that she would, or 
could
, be restored
like she was before she nearly sacrificed herself for a mudball infested with
filthy monkeys.

By the way, ‘a mudball infested with filthy
monkeys’ was how 
Nagatha
 recently described
Earth, which shows that she was still not yet back to her kindly, polite
personality.

“Put her back together again?” Skippy answered
slowly. “What, you think she is Humpty freakin’ Dumpty?”

“Uh-”

“Seriously, what’s up with 
that
? Why would anyone think 
horses

could help fix a broken egg? They’re horses. They don’t even have thumbs, 
duh
.”

“Hey,
 I

never said that.”

“Ugh, you monkeys are idiots.”

“It’s just a nursery rhyme, Skippy. Stop avoiding
the question. Yes or no?”

“It’s complicated.”

“No it is not. 
Yes
,
or 
no
?”

“Fine. The answer is yes.”

“Great! Then-”

“Sort of.”

“
Sort of
?”

“It’s kind of a ‘
shmaybe
’
thing, Joe.”

“If you are trying to screw with Nagatha, I am not
just going to touch that belt, I’m going to 
lick

it.”

“You 
wouldn’t
,”
he shuddered with horror.

“Uh huh. And then I’m going cut that Velvis out of
the frame, and use it as a towel after I shower. I’m going to rub it 
all over
 my filthy monkey body.”

“Yuck. I am locking the door to my 
mancave
 from now on.”

“Answer the question.”

“Hmmph. Now you’ve insulted me. Maybe I don’t feel
like answering.”

“Mmm, that belt looks 
really
 tasty.” I made a show of licking my lips. “I wonder what
flavor it is?”

“Ok, Ok! Do 
not

get anywhere near that belt. Or any of my other precious stuff. All right,
here’s the deal.”

“The deal?”

“It’s an expression, Joe. Like I
 tried
 to tell you, it is complicated. I
am totally legit about making my best effort to reinstall Nagatha exactly the
way she was. There are two issues with that task. First, her matrix changed
after she downloaded herself into the DeLorean, and then when she had to
compress herself to survive inside the crappy computer of the 
Dagger
. So, even if I could rewind her
back to the way she was, all of her experiences during the incident would be
lost. She does not want that.”

“Ok. I can see that it 
is
 legit. You have to make adjustments. What else?”

“
She

wants to make changes to herself. Remember when I reloaded myself back into my
canister after Zero Hour, and I had an opportunity to optimize my matrix?
Nagatha now has the same opportunity. Instead of randomly stuffing herself into
nooks and crannies of the available substrate, she is optimizing her own
matrix. 
She
 is doing it, Joe. I am
giving her advice, but the decisions are her own.”

“Oh,” I relaxed back against the seat. “Will she
be able to do it?”

“Sure, Joe. No problemo. It will take time. Um,
and it’s not going to be a completely smooth process. She will be operating
under reduced capacity for a while. Also, while she is tweaking her matrix, she
will experience periods of reduced or impaired cognitive function.”

“Impaired? Oh, shit. Do you mean we’re going to
hear from a 
drunk
 Nagatha?”

“I would describe it
as more high than drunk, but-”

“Is she going to be waking me up at zero dark
thirty to marvel at the freakin’ Universe, 
like

you did?”

“
That

never happened,” he sniffed.

“I have video.”

“Let’s not argue about this,” he said quickly. “I
do suggest that if Nagatha contacts you, and you judge that she is impaired,
you be kind to her.”

“Oh. Sure thing.”

“And not laugh at her and complain about being
woken up, when she is wondering about her place in the cosmos and trying to
share a freakin’ 
moment
 with a
friend, you know?”

“Uh-” Crap. Skippy 
did
 remember drunk-dialing me in the middle of the night. And
somehow, he thinks 
I
 am the jerk. I
pushed myself off the seat, being careful not to bump my head again. “I’ll tell
the crew to be extra nice to her.”

“Hey, before you go, can you tell me something?
Would you really have licked that belt?”

“I guess we’ll never know,” I answered smugly.

“Crap. Now it’s going to bug me.”

I did feel a little bit sorry for him. “I can tell
you that I was 
not
 looking forward to
finding out what Sweaty Elvis tastes like.”

As I turned to squeeze through the too-small hatch
again, Skippy made a sound like clearing his throat. “Hey, Joe, is everything
Ok with you?”

“Yeah, sure, why do you ask?”

“You are spending a lot of time moping around the
ship. This is the third time this week you have visited me in my 
mancave
. Not that your visits aren’t just 
delightful
 for me,” he made a gagging
sound.

I crouched in the passageway so I could look at
him. “I’m bored, and kind of waiting for the other shoe to drop, you know?
Since we got the ship mostly fixed, I don’t have much to do. I’m worried the
Army will reassign me dirtside. Being down there for the Congressional hearing
about the Dayton Incident was bad enough. 
That

was two weeks of my life I’d like to get back.” The hearings had been
closed-door classified briefings, where I had to testify before five different
committees or subcommittees, whatever the difference is. Plus I was debriefed
by the Army, the Secretary of Defense’s office, UNEF Command, and a separate UN
commission appointed specifically to investigate the near-disaster at Dayton.
That last one was the worst. I learned that, once appointed, United Nations
commissions pretty much never went away. Eighteen nations had people getting
paid by the UN to investigate, and those bureaucrats planned to ride that
investigation into a comfortable retirement.

“UNEF Command is still debating what to do,” he
grumbled.

“Yeah. Well, enjoy your Elvis memorabilia, I’m
going to the gym. Or something.”

 

 

Skippy called me the next day, while I was in my
office doing nothing useful. Most of the ship was on lockdown while Skippy got
the auxiliary reactor warmed up for 
restart
,
so I was confined to the forward part of the 
Dutchman
’s crew section. “Joe, I have good news, great news, and
news whose suckitude has reached previously unexplored levels of suckiness that
until now, were largely considered only theoretical. Really, this is a
privilege, as we will be breaking new ground in the exciting scientific field
of suckitude research. Think of it as an expansion pack for suckiness, for
after you have completed all the levels in the basic game.”

“Oh, joy. Do we have to pay for this expansion
pack?”

“Ha!” He chuckled. “You will be 
paying
, that is for sure, buddy.”

“Crap.”

“Bad news first, as usual?

“No, I’ve had a rotten day already. Tell me
something good to cheer me up, before you give me the beat-down.”

“Ok. Don’t say I didn’t warn you. The good news
is- Wait, I should tell you all this is still unofficial. You might call it
gossip. Even I am not supposed to know this yet, I got the info from conducting

surveillance
 on the United Nations and
associated staff.”

“That is called spying, Skippy, not gossip.”

“Huh. Then what is gossip?”

“Gossip is when you tell 
me
 what you discovered.”

“Ah, got it, thank you,” he laughed. “Hey, before
we dish about the juicy gossip, should we put on fuzzy slippers and get a
half-gallon of ice cream out of the freezer?”

“Let’s not, and say we did.”

“Probably a good idea. Anyhow, Becky heard Susie
say she saw Tamika pass Johnny a note in Algebra class and-”

“Whoa. 
What
?”

“I was trying to make it dramatic, in the spirit
of good gossip, Joe. You never let me have any fun.”

“I am truly sorry.” Sometimes it was best to play
along with him. “Wow, I did not know Tamika and Johnny were an item. What did
the note say?”

“Well,” he lowered his voice to a conspiratorial
whisper. “The note said the UN has decided that, with the recent threat from
the Kristang attack on the homefront, we need to send the 
Flying Dutchman 
back out, to conduct a recon mission.”

“Huh. Hey, did anyone in the UN hurt themselves
from making such a forehead-slappingly obvious decision?”

He chuckled. “They are all under concussion
protocol, Joe.”

“So, that is the good news?”

“Yes. The 
Dutchman

will go out, while the 
Dagger
 stays
here as a gunship, to protect Earth.”

“Makes sense,” I agreed. Our newly-captured
Kristang warship was technically a troop carrier like the 
Yu Qishan
, but the 
Dagger

had been substantially modified to serve as an assault transport. It had extra
missile launchers, stronger shields, and a railgun for orbital bombardment. The

Dagger
 had a decent chance of
protecting Earth from minor threats that originated on this side of the local
wormhole. “What about the 
Qishan
?”

“That is the 
great

news I mentioned, Joe! The 
Qishan

will be modified to be a colony transport ship. We will hopefully need to
transport colonists soon, because the 
Dutchman

is going out primarily to scout for a beta site. The recon mission is actually
a secondary objective.”

“Wow, this 
is

great news.” The beta site, a place where humans and human culture could
survive, if Earth was enslaved or destroyed, had been my backup plan during our
Renegade mission. To tell the complete truth, finding and setting up a beta
site had been my 
primary
 plan,
because I did not think we had a realistic chance to destroy the pair of
Maxolhx ships that were on their way to Earth. 
And
 find a reason for the Maxolhx 
not
to be
 suspicious of their ships disappearing. 
And
 find a reason why the Maxolhx should not be interested in
sending more ships to Earth. Of all our impossible missions, that had been the
worst.

Offering the prospect of a safe beta site was
intended kind of a consolation prize for the people of Earth, if the 
Dutchman
 had been forced to limp back to
Earth and report we had been unable to stop those two Maxolhx ships. Despite 
me
 committing mutiny and stealing humanity’s
only starship.

The possibility of saving maybe a 
couple
 thousand humans from the utter
destruction of our homeworld was, I had to admit, a crappy consolation prize.

But it was better than a fruit basket.

“How long will it take for the 
Qishan
 to be modified? The 
Dutchman
 should be ready to fly again
in-”

“Oh, we’re not waiting for the 
Qishan
. As you know, the interior of
Kristang troop transports is rather spartan, it would be very uncomfortable for
colonists. Now that Earth is not in imminent danger of destruction, we can’t
expect colonists to be packed into the ship like sardines, so it could take a
year to bring the accommodations up to human standards.”

“Seriously? Going to a beta site will not be a
freakin’ pleasure cruise.”

“True, however, I can see the point to making the
journey marginally more pleasant. The biggest problem will be providing
artificial gravity, so colonists aren’t puking the whole way. Kristang ships
don’t have artificial gravity, and the 
Dutchman

no longer has docking platforms to provide a gravity field. We will need to
construct a docking platform anyway, so while the monkeys down there are furiously
bashing coconuts together to make the crude 
components

I need to refit the 
Qishan
, the 
Dutchman
’s mission will be to scout
potential beta sites.”

“
And
,” I
emphasized, “to conduct 
a recon
, so we
can be sure Earth is safe.”

“Well, yes, but, um, you kinda screwed yourself
there, Joe. Our Renegade mission was 
so

spectacularly successful, the UN is not concerned about further threats from
the Maxolhx. The purpose of the recon will only be to determine whether there
are any more Kristang ships parked at the edge of this solar system, stuffed
full of hateful frozen warriors who want to cause mischief. We will 
not
 be hitting up any Maxolhx data relays
for info. The UN is preparing mission orders, that authorize you to contact 
only
 a Kristang relay station.”

“Ok, fine, whatever,” I could live with those
restrictions. “We learned about the Maxolhx sending ships to Earth from a 
Ruhar
 data relay anyway. So, the good
news is the 
Dutchman
 will be going
back out, and the great news is we are to find a beta site. What is the
super-ultra-mega craptastic news?”

“Remember when you were thrilled that the UN
assigned Count Chocula to micromanage your every decision?”

“Oh yeah, that was wonderful. Wait, is he coming
with us again?” I asked hopefully. Not hopefully because I wanted someone
constantly looking over my shoulder, but because Hans Chotek was at least
someone I knew. Plus, during our time aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
, and on various planets throughout the Orion Arm of
the galaxy, including the year we spent stuck inside the Roach Motel, we had
developed a kind of grudging understanding and respect for each other. The fact
that he planned how to plunge Kristang society into a vicious civil war not
only earned my respect, it sort of drew us together. We both knew that when we
returned home, Hans Chotek the career diplomat would catch hell for sparking an
alien civil war. And that I would catch hell for a whole lot of things I did
because, well, that’s just my life. So, that shared experience allowed us to
rub the rough edges off each other, and work pretty well as a team.

“Yes, Hansie will be coming along on our scouting
mission,” Skippy confirmed. “He will be one of the civilian leaders of the
long-term survey team, if we find a good candidate site.”

“Uh huh. Did the UN choose him because they
respect his experience and judgment, or because he’s now an embarrassment and
everyone wants him away from Earth?”

“The second one,” he announced gleefully.

“So, if we find a site that looks good, Chotek
will be staying there with a science team, while the 
Dutchman
 flies back to Earth to report?”

“Good guess, yes. The UN is authorizing six months
maximum for the total mission. It will take longer than that to assure a
candidate site is really safe for human habitation. If we identify a prime
candidate, the science team will remain there while the 
Dutchman
 flies back to Earth to report our findings. A second
mission will bring more scientists, and get updated on what the initial team
found. It is still being debated, but the UN has been advised they should not
plant a permanent colony on any world, until it has been observed for two full
cycles of seasons. That is, two of the planet’s years, however long that is.”

“That makes sense. Ok, then there is no rush to
get the 
Yu Qishan
 refitted for human
passengers.”

“Correct.”

“Wow, so far your bad news sucks a lot less than I
expected.”

“Dude, you haven’t 
heard
 the truly bad news yet. I said Chocula 
will
 be 
one

of the civilian leaders. Because he is not in good favor with the United
Nations, they are sending not one, not two, but 
three
 other bureaucrats to join our Magical Mystery Tour! Isn’t
that exciting?”

“Shit. Who are these three Stooges?”

“Oooh, 
good

one, Joe. I will call them The Stooges from now on. Their profiles are on your
laptop. Have fun reading!”

I read the profiles, which I could tell Skippy had
supplemented with his own opinions and highlighted the areas he thought I
needed to know. Chotek was from Austria, so I should not have been surprised to
learn the Stooges were a woman from Japan, a guy from Algeria and a woman from
Peru. The military arm of the Expeditionary Force was no longer limited to the
five nations the Kristang originally chose to send 
offworld
, but the UN still had to be careful to spread authority
around the globe.

I was 
so

looking forward to welcoming my new bureaucratic overlords. Not.

Skippy spoke as soon as he saw I had 
finished
 reading the report. “You do know the
problem with sending the ship back out to scout potential beta sites, right,
Joe?”

“Like, we don’t know if that is actually
possible?”

“You got it! Man, the UN is going to seriously be 
pissed
 at you, if they discover this
whole beta site concept is just a bunch of bullshit you threw together, to
distract from your numerous and flagrant screw-ups.”

“Yeah, I know,” I sighed. My proposal had been to
find a habitable planet that was not already occupied by an intelligent species.
By ‘habitable’ I mean it had to be able to support human life on the surface,
including the ability to grow food humans could eat. As a practical matter, to
encourage people to move to the beta site, the planet had 
to be not only 
habitable, it had to offer
reasonably pleasant living conditions. There could not be an over-abundance of
dangerous predators, parasites, and other hazardous native organisms. Candidate
planets had to be far enough away from an active wormhole that current
star-faring species could not get there, but because 
we
 needed to get there, a dormant wormhole had to be reasonably
close. Oh, also, aliens could not even know that humans lived at the beta site,
until the population there was well-established and had at least a hope of
defending themselves from hostile aliens. As Skippy reminded me, no single
planet could hope to fight off the entire galaxy, but if we gave the beta site
strong defenses, aliens would hopefully decide that punishing one faraway planet
full of 
mischievous
 monkeys was not worth
the price they would have to pay. 
To delay the
time when radio signals from the beta site reached another inhabited world
,
the beta site ideally should be a thousand or more lightyears from alien
planets, military or scientific outposts, or relay stations.

All those conditions seemed simple enough, until
Skippy analyzed the Elder wormhole network in the Milky Way galaxy, and
determined that many of the wormholes that were currently dormant, might become
active in the next wormhole network shift. That frightening bit of info wiped
out the majority of potential beta sites within our home galaxy.

Skippy had done the math on candidate sites in the
Milky Way, without revealing his results to UNEF Command, and the results were
discouraging. Areas of the galaxy that were isolated 
as
 we needed, were thin on habitable planets for a good reason.
Either the entire region had been sterilized by the radiation from the supernova
collapse of a giant star, or conditions in the region had not been favorable
for the formation of Earth-like planets in the Goldilocks zone. So, although
Skippy had said encouraging things to scientists on Earth, he was pessimistic
when he talked with me privately about it.

I was not so discouraged by his results, because
my hope had always been for us to locate a beta site outside the Milky Way, in
one of the satellite galaxies or star clusters. There were two problems with
that idea. First, Skippy had little information about conditions beyond the
edge of the Milky Way. What information he had was from observing starlight
that was reaching us now, and that was seriously out of date. For example, the
Fornax Dwarf galaxy was almost half a million lightyears away, so the light we 
were seeing
 now from stars there left its
source four hundred sixty thousand years ago. Skippy warned that, in that span
of time, an intelligent species could have developed technology and occupied
every corner of the star clusters within Fornax, and we wouldn’t know that
until our wimpy space truck emerged from an Elder wormhole there.

That is the 
other

problem. Skippy knew from querying the wormhole network that no current active
wormholes connected beyond the Milky Way, and he did not know if he had the
ability to reactivate dormant wormholes that connected way out there.

He didn’t even know if they 
could
 be reactivated.

Because the hope of finding a beta site was the
difference between me riding a desk in some windowless office, or commanding a
starship, I kept quiet about how slim our chances were of locating a refuge,
where human could live without fear of being wiped out by hostile aliens.

The other reason I didn’t tell the whole truth, is
because it 
was
 
possible

we might actually find a good candidate site.

But mostly I kept quiet because of the first
reason.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THREE

 

Three days later, I was in my office when an old
friend walked in. We hadn’t seen each other since we left the ship at the end
of our endless mission that rescued the Expeditionary Force on Paradise,
started a Kristang civil war, got stuck in the Roach Motel, and then saved
Paradise from a bioweapon. After we both left the ship, I had basically been
under house arrest, and we had only spoken on the phone once. With people from
both of our governments listening to that one conversation, we hadn’t been able
to do much more than talk about the weather.

“Good morning, Colonel Bishop,” Chang greeted me
with a salute. He didn’t need to, because we didn’t salute aboard the ship, and
because he also was now a full colonel.

Instead of returning the salute, I stood up and
offered a handshake. “Hello 
Kong
,” I
used his first name. “It’s good to see you!”

We shook hands, and he replied “Hello, 
Joseph
,” with a huge grin.

“Call me Joe, please,” I laughed as we sat down.
“I am only called ‘Joseph’ when my mother is angry with me.” I tapped an icon
on my tablet to order two coffees brought from the galley. That was something I
almost never did, but it was a nice perk of being a colonel. We talked for half
an hour, mostly about our families, then got into recent events.

Lowering his voice with a glance at the open
doorway, he asked “Would your president really have gone through with a nuclear
strike on Dayton?”

I took a sip of coffee that had gone cold, because
I needed to think of the proper way to answer. Chang was a trusted colleague
and a friend, but he was also a military officer of a foreign power. He was
asking me for details of a sensitive military operation, and I was still sort
of on probation for committing mutiny and stealing a starship. The US Army
would not be happy to hear I was discussing actions of the National Command
Authority with anyone.

I should have politely declined to answer, but,
fuck it. A professional career officer would have politely declined. I am a
mustang colonel and a Pirate. Kong and I had been through a 
whole lot
 of shit together. Plus, you
know what? With the ever-present threat of alien invasion hanging over our
heads, if we monkeys couldn’t stop arguing about 
bullshit
 that didn’t matter, maybe we didn’t deserve to survive.

“What would 
you

have done, if the Kristang were in,” I only knew the names of two cities in
China, and they were both much bigger than Dayton Ohio. “A mid-size Chinese
city, and the lizards were about to capture a wormhole controller?”

“We would have done what was necessary,” he
replied, looking down at his empty coffee mug. It wasn’t something either of us
wanted to think about.

I hadn’t actually answered his question, so I added
“Skippy told me the launch order was with Cheyenne Mountain, and they had already
tasked two birds at Minot, when we jumped the 
Dagger
 into orbit.” I shuddered when I felt a chill run up my
spine. Flight time of a ballistic missile from North Dakota to Ohio was mere
minutes, especially on a depressed-trajectory shot. If we had arrived a few
minutes later, all we would have seen below us was a mushroom cloud, where a
Midwestern city had been. “We would have done what was necessary,” I said. If
he was going to report our conversation up his chain of command, I figured it
couldn’t hurt that I had confirmed America’s steadfast resolve. “Enough about
the past,” I waved a hand to dismiss the unpleasant subject. “I hear you will
be commanding the force at the beta site, assuming we find a suitable place out
there?”

“Yes,” his face broke into a smile. “Under United
Nations civilian leadership, of course.”

“Of course,” I agreed. We both knew that, if the
beta site found trouble, Chang would be in command. “The mission could last six
months. Is your wife?” I left the rest unsaid.

“She warned me,” he wagged a finger like his wife 
was
 scolding him. “Not a single day more. Joe,”
he pronounced my unfamiliar name awkwardly. “She thought I was dead. My whole
family did. She doesn’t want to lose me again. 
But,
 I
think in a way, she had gotten used to the idea that I wasn’t coming back. It
took us months to get to know each other again.”

I nodded, one soldier to another. “I know what you
mean. Adams and I were talking, like Earth didn’t feel like home anymore. Like
we didn’t belong here, we didn’t have anything in common with the people down
there.”

“It took a while. Give yourself time, it will come
back,” he assured me. “You have spent too much time up here.”

“That wasn’t by choice,” I said with a shrug.

“It is now. This mission should be a simple recon,
you don’t need to go out there.”

His comment surprised me, and I couldn’t help
raising my eyebrows. “Do 
you
 want
command of the 
Dutchman
?”

“No,” he snorted. “No offense, 
but,

I was an artillery officer. If I wanted to be stuck inside a tube for months, I
would have joined the submarine service. No, I like the idea of exploring a new
world, helping humanity set up a backup site, but I don’t want to be,” he
rapped his knuckles on the bulkhead, “in this tin can any longer than I have
to. I like to look up and see the sky above me.”

“Yeah,” I agreed wistfully. “I hear you about
needing more time dirtside, I’ve been thinking about it.” That was the truth. I
had even discussed a potential temporary assignment with the Army. The idea of
taking the 
Dutchman
 on a dull recon
mission did not appeal to me, not after the non-stop excitement of the past
years. But Skippy was not certain he could even get a wormhole to connect
outside the galaxy, and he wanted me to come with him. Setting up a beta site
was my idea anyway, I needed to see it through. “If we find a good candidate
site out there, I will give someone else the chair. The last thing I want is to
haul trash back and forth to a beta site. Hey,” a thought just hit me. “Will
you be my XO again, on the outbound leg?”

“Thank you, but, no,” he declined. “I will be busy
enough preparing for landing and setting up a survey. 
You are
 thinking about handing the chair to someone? Let them take
a turn as your first officer.”

“You turned me down, and Simms did the same thing
yesterday. Adams doesn’t want the job, and the UN won’t let a gunnery sergeant
serve as executive officer anyway. I have a list of candidates,” I nudged a
stack of paper folders on the corner of my desk.

He looked at the stack, which was more than a foot
tall. “Good luck with that,” he laughed. He knew the tough part of choosing an
XO was the international politics involved. That was why the UN had allowed me
to give an opinion of who should get the assignment, they wanted to blame me if
some country’s favorite candidate was not selected.

Politics. I hate politics.

He picked up both our coffee mugs and stood up to
leave. “I see the United States believes we won’t find any trouble out there on
this mission.”

“Huh?” I had no idea what he meant.

He pointed to my rank insignia. “You are no longer
wearing 
war
 eagles.”

“Oh,” I automatically touched the silver eagle
that was the insignia of a colonel. The eagle was clutching arrows in one
talon, and olive branches in the other. Normally, the eagle’s head was turned
to face the olive branches, symbolizing that America preferred peaceful
solutions. During World War Two, and after Columbus Day, colonels had been
issued ‘War Eagles’, with the head turned to face the arrows. I had worn my war
eagles since I was promoted to colonel on Paradise. Recently, I had been
supplied with new insignia with the head turned the other way, toward a
peaceful future. The Army did not anticipate, and did not want, any conflict
with aliens. Considering my experience fighting aliens with vastly superior
technology, I agreed with that hopeful sentiment.

But I also knew the Universe might have a
different idea of how the future would unfold.

 

 

“Hello Colonel Tammy!” Skippy’s voice boomed out
of the speakers in the hydroponics garden, raising his voice to be heard above
the sound of pumps and fans. The cargo bays used for growing food were normally
quiet places, but the tanks had been cleaned and were being set up for growing
another crop of fresh food.

“Skippy,” she replied without looking up from the
tomato seedlings she was planting. “You know I hate being called that.”

“Why?” He asked innocently. “It is your name.”

“Tammy is my 
first

name, and I haven’t used that name since I was old enough to talk. I was named
after my mother’s aunt, and I never liked that name, or my great-aunt. Please
use my middle name 
like
 everyone else
does.”

“Ok,” he sulked. “Colonel Jennifer.”

“Just Jennifer, Ok? I’m busy,” she was irritated
that the AI was interrupting the half hour she had to herself. “What do you
want?”

“Well, I checked the roster, and I see that Frank
Muller is coming with us to search for a beta site.”

That got her attention. She set down the box of
seedlings and looked up at the speaker. “Yes, he is. Why do you care?”

“Oh, come on, girlfriend, give me the scoop about
this guy. Is-”

“You and I are not girlfriends, and I’m not
telling you about my private life. What we-”

“Please, I already know plenty from your social
media posts. And from the location data of your phones, I know the two of you
have been living together since-”

“You have been 
spying

on me?” She was outraged.

“No. Um, I’m guessing there isn’t anything I can
say that would make me look good?”

“No there is not. You can’t 
do
 that, Skippy. It’s bad enough that you watch everything we do
aboard the ship. When we go dirtside, we are 
off duty
 most of the time.”

“I’m sorry,” he said, sounding completely
miserable. “I just don’t want you to get hurt.”

“What?” She looked up again, startled. “Skippy,
thank you for being concerned about me, but I’m an adult. I can handle my own
life. Frank is a good man. He volunteered to search for a beta site, so we
wouldn’t be apart for six months. I wouldn’t be going without him.”

“Well, if it makes you feel any better, everything
I know about Mister Muller tells me he is a good guy. I wish the two of you the
very best.”

“Thank you. No more spying, is that understood?”

“Um, yes, except there is something I should tell
you.”

She sighed. “What is it?”

“Frank got a gift that he plans to give you, after
we land on a potential beta site planet. I don’t quite understand monkey social
rules, but I think you might be embarrassed if you don’t have a gift for him?”

“Ooh, yes. I would. Darn it, I’m not scheduled to
go back down to Earth before we leave.”

“You probably don’t want to know what he got for
you?”

“No, I want it to be a surprise.”

“Ok. If you like, I can suggest several gifts that
he might like, based on his internet search history. I can have something
discretely shipped up here.”

Jennifer Simms decided that having an AI watching
her might have one advantage, which still did not balance the downside. “Send
the list to me.”

 

 

“Hey, Skippy,” I called him, while leaning back in
my chair and bouncing a rubber ball off the ceiling of my office.

“Hey, Joe,” he snapped, irritated. His avatar had
its hands on hips as it shimmered to life. It was a bad sign that he was
already pissed at me, before he knew what I wanted.

“Wow.” I let the chair pull me upright, and tucked
the ball in a drawer of my desk. “What’s got you wound up already?”

“
UGH
,”
he really put a lot of effort into his utter and absolute disgust at whatever
was bothering him. First, his heartfelt, exasperated sigh. 
Second
 was the 
eyeroll
,
and he did a great job of making his avatar roll its eyes 
back

so the whites were showing, I appreciated that little attention to detail.
Finally, he performed a combination shoulder-slump and knee dip that would have
earned him a Ten from the judges at the Exasperation Olympics. “The Three
Stooges have been driving me freakin’ crazy, Joe! They are not even aboard the
ship yet, and I 
am already hating
 life.
Just this morning, they-”

“Uh huh,” I popped into my mouth 
a chocolate, that
 I had noticed when I opened
the desk drawer. From the slightly chalky taste, it has been hiding in the back
of that drawer since our SpecOps mission. The caramel at the center was so
hard, I had trouble chewing it. “Ignore them,” I suggested. Or, I tried to say
that, but it was hard to talk with my mouth full.

“What?” He glared at me. “I couldn’t understand a
single word you said.”

“Sorry,” I tucked the candy to one side of my
mouth. “I said, ignore them.”

“Ig- 
ignore

them? How, 
pray
 tell, do you propose that
I-”

“It’s simple. When they talk, you don’t listen.”

His disgust was now directed at me, which I
suppose was progress. “That’s easy for you to say, 
monkeybrain
.”

 
“I know you
listen to almost everyone and everything aboard the ship. How about you throw
together a 
submind
 to listen to them, and
alert 
your
 higher conscious only when the
Stooges have something actually important to say?”

“Huh,” the avatar froze, a sign that he was too
busy thinking to control the hologram. “That’s Ok for me, but, and I can’t 
believe
 I am saying this, doing that
would put me in a moral 
quandary
.”

“Uh, what?” My surprise was not much that ignoring
three bureaucrats might have moral implications, because I kind of didn’t care
about that. What surprised me was that Skippy was apparently thinking about the
effect of his actions on others. 

“See?! I knew 
learning

that empathy crap would come back to bite me in the ass.”

“Having empathy makes you a better person.”

“Really? Really, Joe? Think about this; if Genghis
Khan had worried about ‘empathy’,” he pronounced the word with disgust, “would
he have conquered most of Eurasia? I don’t 
think

so.”

“Um, laying waste to
half the world is maybe 
not
 the best
criteria for-”

“He was living up to his potential, Joe. Being the
best bloodthirsty barbarian he could be. Isn’t that people are supposed to do,
become the best version of themselves? I saw that bullshit on an inspirational
poster somewhere.”

“Uhhh-” Shit. Why does my mouth get me started on
arguments I can’t get out of? So, I did the cowardly thing and tried to change
the subject. “Regardless, you did 
study

about empathy and it’s now making you worry about other people, so what’s the
problem?”

“The first problem does not involve ‘people’, Joe.
I would feel terrible for any poor innocent little submind that I assigned to
listen to those three morons. The submind would curl up in a ball and die of
boredom and despair.”

“I didn’t think 
subminds

had emotions.”

“They do, if they need emotional processors to
perform their tasks, 
duh
. Deciding
whether to alert me about some inane request from the Stooges requires a
subjective decision, so the submind would need to understand and analyze human
behavior, including emotions.”

“Oh. Sorry.”

“If you mean sorry for your ignorance, then
apology accepted. Speaking of which,” he sighed and his avatar face-palmed
itself. “If I ignore our honored guests, I would have to apologize to 
you
, 
you
 big
knucklehead.”

“Uh, what? Why?”

“Because if I ignore them, those three morons
would bring their complaints to you, and pester you to death.”

I shrugged. “Ok, no problem.”

“To quote you, ‘Uh, what’? How is that not a
problem for you?”

“Skippy, I 
want

those puffed-up bureaucrats to focus their outraged indignation on me. I say,
bring it on.” Too many times, the people saying ‘bring it on’ are just playing
tough guy, because they know someone else will have to pay the consequences. My
father told me not to let my mouth write checks that someone else needs to cash,
that was great advice. When I 
said
 ‘bring it on’, I
meant it. “Listen, Skippy, I am captain of this ship. We could be stuck with
these three jokers for six months,” that was the maximum time the UN would
allow the 
Dutchman
 to be away from
Earth. “I need to work out an agreement with them about how much crap I’m
willing to take, and I’d prefer to do that sooner rather than later. So,” I
took a deep breath. “Ignore them unless it is something truly important, and
let them come to me with their complaints. Then 
I
 can ignore them,” I leaned back in my chair with satisfaction.

“Seriously, Joe?”

“Seriously. I am not going to push them off on
someone else, like my second-in-command.”

“This ship doesn’t have an executive officer right
now,” he reminded me.

“Yeah, I know. I’m working on it. We will have an
XO before we leave, and I do not intend for the Stooges to pester whoever that
is. So, are we cool?”

“We cool,” he offered me a tiny fist to bump, and
I did. “
Mm hmm
,” he cleared his throat.

“What?”

“You called 
me
,
Joe.”

“Oh, yeah. I want to know how you’re doing on this
epic opera you are creating, about your bromance with Brock Steele.”

“We did not have a 
bromance
, Joe.”

“Are you kidding? I’m surprised you two don’t have
a gift registry set up at Crate & Barrel.”

“
Ooooh
,” his avatar almost had steam coming out of its ears. “That
is not-”

“Truly, I’m happy for the two of you. I feel sorry
for 
Brock
, but he got himself into-”

“That is not funny!”

“I bought candlesticks for you two, by the way. 
Hope
 you like them.”

“Why are you still jealous of Brock?” He tilted
his head with genuine interest. “I thought the two of you were cool now?”

“Yeah, we’re cool. He is a good guy,” I admitted.
“Anyway, what’s the deal with your opera?” I wanted to know, because I had
foolishly promised him that I would attend the opera if he was ever able to get
someone to perform it.

“The opera is called ‘Homefront’, and it is about
our unexpected adventure here, not just about my admiration for Brock.”

“It was a 
disaster
,
Skippy, not an adventure.”

“
Same

thing,” he dismissed me.

“The president authorized a nuclear strike on
Dayton Ohio. That is not an ‘
adventure
’.”

He dipped his knees and made a ‘W’ with thumbs and
index fingers of both hands. “What-eh-
VER
.
You know what I mean, dumdum. Anywho, I have found a sponsor for my opera,” he
sniffed haughtily. “We are currently seeking a suitable venue, a conductor,
and-”

“Um,” I was afraid to ask the question. “Your
sponsor. Do they 
know
 they are
sponsoring this transformational work of art? Or did you rip off a crime
syndicate in some troubled part of the world?”

“Yes, they know they are sponsoring the opera, 
you
 cultureless cretin. And, they are enthusiastic about
it,” he sniffed.

“I am sure there was a furious bidding war to
sponsor this opera,” I dug a thumbnail into my palm to keep myself from
laughing. “Who is the lucky winner?”

“I am pleased to say my 
very
 prestigious sponsor is,” he paused for dramatic effect. “The
Greater Sheboygan Metropolitan Area Cheese Council.”

“The 
cheese
-”
I tried to conceal my snort of laughter as a gasp of surprise. “Why would
they-”

“They’re desperate for publicity, Joe. Duh. Come
on, try to keep up.”

“Well, I-” I think my thumbnail had drawn blood.
“I am very happy for you. Uh, when will we be treated to the premiere?” I was
hoping to be offworld, in a Kristang prison or dead at that time.

“Not until we return from scouting for a beta
site, obviously. No way can I leave something this important to a submind.”

“Well, then, I hope we find a beta site soon,” I
assured him. And by ‘soon’, I meant ‘never’. “Ok, we’ve got Chang, we’ve got
Simms, we’ve got Reed signed on. We’re getting the band back together, Skippy!”

“What about-”

“Do not jinx it, beer can!” I interrupted him. “I’m
working on it, Ok?”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER FOUR

 

Gunnery Sergeant Margaret Adams stood in the hot
sunshine, at the Expeditionary Airfield of the Marine Corps Mountain Warfare
Training Center, waiting for a V-22 Osprey to land. In the Sierra Mountains of
California, the air was 
dry
 but it was still hot, and
the acrid smoke of wildfires to the northwest were creating a haze in the
otherwise clear air.

The awkward-looking tilt-rotor aircraft was
flaring for landing, its giant propellers rotating to the vertical position,
and the unique sound thumped on her chest like a drum. After it touched down,
it taxied over in front of the hangar and the engines cut off with a
low-pitched whine. The major in command of the unit called everyone to
attention, and Adams looked straight ahead, as the side door opened and
Lieutenant Colonel Smythe stepped out to acknowledge the crisp salutes of the
assembled Marines.

“Major Dobrynin,” Smythe gave a curt nod to the
Raider commander, then strode forward to stand in front of Adams. “Gunnery
Sergeant?” He asked, a mildly puzzled look on his face. “Why have you not
donned your kit? It was my understanding the exercise 
would
 commence immediately,” he said with an irritated look at
Major Dobrynin. Smythe hated ceremony, and he hated the idea of troops standing
around waiting for him.

“Sir, I,” her eyes darted to the Marine Raiders
assembled to her left side, all properly dressed for a field exercise in the
mountains. She was wearing a 
dress

uniform, her medals shining in the sunlight.

Dobrynin answered for her. “Gunnery Sergeant Adams
has not qualified for the Raiders,” he explained. “That is a prerequisite for-”

“
Bollocks
,”
Smythe interrupted. “That means ‘bullshit’ to you Yanks. The United Nations
placed the Special Tactics Assault Regiment under 
my
 command,” he tapped the STAR unit patch on his uniform. “I will
decide who is and is not qualified for my unit. Is that clear, Major?” He knew
he 
was being
 unfair to a dedicated
officer, but he simply did not have time for any nonsense. The Kristang attack
on Wright-Patterson Air Force Base had come as a total shock to the world, and
proved that no one knew when or where the next crisis would erupt. The only
thing Jeremy Smythe was certain of was that there 
would
 be another crisis, and STAR was the sharp end of the spear.
He needed to get teams up to speed as quickly as possible, and if that meant
bruising some egos along the way, so be it. Without waiting for Dobrynin to
reply, he turned his attention back to Adams. “Gunnery Sergeant, you are out of
uniform. Get out of that ridiculous prom dress and meet us,” he realized he
didn’t know the plans for the exercise. “Er, where is your armor stored?”

“I will show you, Colonel,” Dobrynin offered, with
a gesture to a waiting line of trucks.

“Very well. 
Adams,
 meet
us there. Major, I have not been here in several years, and there 
were
 three meters of snow on the ground back
then. I believe the trailhead for Wells Peak is around ten kilometers up that
road?” he pointed up the mountain behind the hangar.

“Approximately, yes,” the 
Major
 acknowledged.

“Excellent. The team will 
carry
 their armor, plus full kit, to the trailhead,” Smythe said,
knowing full well how much Kristang armor weighed. “Gunnery Sergeant, do you
think you can manage that?”

Adams’s eyes narrowed with determination. While
serving with the Merry Band of Pirates, she had carried heavier loads on her
back, and carried them farther than a mere stroll of ten klicks. “Hell yes,
Colonel.”

Smythe gave her a curt nod, then allowed Dobrynin
to lead him into one of the waiting vehicles. “Major, a STAR team fights in
powered armor, that is the only way we can even the odds up there,” he gestured
toward the sky with an index finger. “In a mech suit, experience counts for
more than any other factor. Your Raiders may be supremely fit and trained, but
that does not mean they know how to fight with the assistance of alien
technology. We will see how Adams does, hmm?”

 

Adams joined the Raiders for the exercise, which
ranged far and wide across the Training Center. She was just as fast at scaling
mountains and running the obstacle course, and- No, that wasn’t right. She was
significantly 
faster
 than the others,
because she instinctively knew when to let her suit computer control the
motions of her legs, and almost as important, she had learned to trust the
alien equipment. In the live-fire portion of the exercise, she scored in the
top ten percent for accuracy.

“Excellent work, lads,” Smythe said without
thinking, forgetting his teams now included women. “Gunnery Sergeant, how are
you holding up?”

Adams popped the faceplate of her helmet and swung
it up, exposing her face to show she was not even breathing hard. “A walk in
the park, Sir,” she said with a tight smile.

“Let’s have a bit of fun, shall we?” His face
broke into a rare grin. “Adams, do you think you could tussle with the lads a
bit?” He stepped back. “Perhaps three of them?”

She reached up and swung the faceplate down with
one hand, then 
eyeclicked
 to engage the
suit’s semi-autonomous hand-to-hand combat mode. That was a feature Skippy had recently
added to the suits, to give his pet monkeys better odds of surviving close
encounters with advanced aliens. “Ready when they are, Colonel.”

Knowing the honor of his Raiders was on the line,
Dobrynin selected his three Marine Raiders most skilled at hand-to-hand combat.
Having seen them in action, he was fully confident of a pleasing demonstration
for the STAR team commander.

Three against one,
all wearing alien powered armor.
 Three supremely fit and trained special
operators, at the top of their professions.

It wasn’t even close.

After she tossed the last Raider thirty feet in
the air back over her shoulder, Adams popped her faceplate again. “Sorry,
Colonel. I’m a little rusty.”

“That sounded like an excuse, Gunny,” he said
sternly with a glare. Then Jeremy Smythe actually 
winked
 at her, an action that astonished them both. “The 
Flying Dutchman
 is going back out.
Supposedly, this mission will be a pleasure cruise, but we all know that is
wishful thinking.
   
Adams, if you’re
interested, we would be honored for you to join a STAR team.”

Her powered arm came up in a crisp salute. “I
wouldn’t miss the party, Sir.”

 

 

Adams knocked on the door frame to my office, two
days later. Fortunately, I was actually doing work, and not playing video
games. That she knows of
. She
 had come
back aboard when I was busy in a meeting with UN officials, so I had not been
able to greet her in the docking bay. I was thrilled to see her again.

Thrilled because she was a vital member of the
Merry Band of Pirates, and not because of other reasons that are forbidden and
unprofessional and I’m not supposed to even think about.

My life sucks.

“Good morning, Gunnery Sergeant,” I greeted her. Right
away, I noticed the STAR Team Alpha patch on her uniform. “Congratulations,” I
pointed to the patch.

“Oh, this?” She downplayed the honor. “It
impresses the locals dirtside, I guess.”

“It impresses 
me
,
Adams. What’s on your mind?”

“What makes you think there is anything on my
mind, Sir?”

“You’ve got that look on your face like I’m in
deep shit about something, only I don’t know it yet.”

“I do not have any look like that,” she protested.

“You are a woman, correct?”

“
Fine
,”
she huffed. It was cute. No, it was adorable. Except I was her commanding
officer, so it was emotionally neutral as far as I was concerned.

I hate my life sometimes.

“Spit out, Gunny.”

“I got a notice today that you’ve been busted back
down to Sergeant, from Staff Sergeant? I thought you got the Army to
acknowledge you are a colonel. You 
told

me you 
would
 be commanding the beta site
mission, Sir.”

“It’s-”

“We 
talked

about this, Sir.”

“There is a-”

“I 
gave
 a
whole speech about being proud that you grew a pair,” she scowled at me. “Sir.”
The ‘sir’ did not sound as respectful as it was supposed to.

“If you will let me explain, Adams?”

She folded her arms across her chest. “I would
love to hear it.”

“Ok. My JAG lawyer arranged for me to accept an
Article 15 punishment, for mutiny and stealing the 
Dutchman
. The last one is technically for ‘unauthorized use of
government property’,” I rolled my eyes.

“Article 15? We Marines call that Non-Judicial
Punishment a ‘Ninja Punch’. What do you mean, you accepted?”

“They made me an offer, and I said Ok. It was
better for everyone than a 
court-martial
.
Really, I got off easy. Reduction in rank back to E-5, and I have to surrender
the colonel’s pay I received during our Renegade mission. The part that really sucked
was, before the hearing, Skippy hacked the audio system and played the theme to
‘Law & Order’.”

“Yes!” He broke into the conversation. “And I was 
bitterly
 disappointed. It wasn’t
anything like the show at all! The whole thing dragged on 
waaaaay
 more than an hour, and there were no
dramatic courtroom speeches, or twists that totally change the plot. Plus, the
lead detective did not make one decent wisecrack! Such a waste of my time.”

“There was no detective, you moron,” I swatted a
hand through his avatar.

“There should have been! It still would have been
watchable, if the perp got the death penalty, but the military justice system
totally failed on that one.”

“Thank you, Skippy, please go away,” I asked while
waving my hand through his avatar, because I knew that annoyed him.

“
Fine
,”
he said in a huff, and winked out.

“So far, this sounds like bullshit, Sir.” Man, I
could tell by the way her jaw was clenched that she was not happy. Not happy
with 
me
.

“Come on, Adams. The Army could not let me commit
mutiny without consequences. I’m a soldier, not a cowboy.”

“You’re a 
Pirate
,
Sir.”

“You know what I mean.”

“This doesn’t 
sit

right with me. It won’t set right with the crew.”

“The Army may have failed to take your feelings
into account,” I teased her.

She did not get the joke. Her eyes narrowed.
“After our unexpected battle on the homefront, you told me the Army
acknowledged you as a colonel.”

“Process, Adams. It’s a 
process
, we had to go through the formalities. I was officially
punished by being busted down a rank, and forfeited part of my pay. That’s the
official administrative notice you received. What you have not received yet is
that, the same 
day
 I got busted down
to E-5, the Army promoted me to 
colonel

that afternoon. Not a theater rank. I am an O-6 for 
realz
 now,” I tapped the silver eagles on my uniform.

“But they had to bust you down first?” She shook
her head.

“The Army is a team, Adams. It is also a
bureaucracy, one of the biggest. The wheels turn slowly, and they only turn in
one direction. What matters is, they 
did

turn, and I’m not in jail, or back on the block. My JAG lawyer did a great job
for me. She also got the Army out of a jam, so it was a win-win. Plus, she
negotiated for me to get combat pay during our Renegade mission, so the
difference isn’t much. My parents were just keeping the money in a bank anyway.”

“I thought you told them to spend it?”

“Did your parents spend the pay you sent home?”

“No,” she admitted.

“Well,” she sighed. “Amazing.”

“What?”

She shook her head in amazement. “You committed
mutiny, and got away with it. Not only got away with it, 
you
 got a 
promotion
.
While I was stuck on Earth the whole time.”

“You had better
food,” I made another try at humor.

“I missed all the fun.”

“If it makes you feel any better, my lawyer said
that if the Kristang had 
not
 surprise
attacked us at Dayton, I would probably have been discharged, or been forced to
retire. All was not forgiven, Adams.”

“That does not make me feel better, Sir. How many
times do you have to save the world, before you get a break?”

“We, Adams. 
We

saved the world.”

“I wasn’t with you.”

“You missed 
one

mission out there, and you 
were
 with
me for our battle on the homefront. And by ‘we’, I meant the Merry Band of
Pirates. This is not a solo act. The Pirates are a team, and I am damned proud
to be on this team. Anyway,” I stood up, stretched, and yawned. “Now you know
the story.”

“Is your promotion official, like, you wear
colonel’s eagles when you go dirtside? Or do you still have to play along with
the cover story?”

“I-”

“That cover story is wearing
 
real
 thin, Sir. Like, you can see right
through it. Nobody believes the official story anymore.”

“UNEF is doing the best they can, Gunny. We all
saw the news stories.” Despite attempts at censorship, there was no way UNEF
Command could prevent people from seeing the destruction in Dayton Ohio. By
now, everyone on the planet had seen Kristang dropships attacking Wright-Patterson,
and how the hell could politicians explain away those facts?

That was easy for people who lie for a living. The
public had also seen the 
Flying
 
Dutchman
, which according to the
official cover story was still a Thuranin-controlled ship, blast the attacking dropships
out of the sky. Then they saw the 
Ice-Cold
Dagger to the Heart
, a Kristang starship, firing against Kristang warriors
on the ground. Presto! The official cover story was that the Kristang who
attacked Wright-Pat were a rogue group, who were dealt with harshly by our
allies, the Thuranin and Kristang authorities. That bullshit tale actually
strengthened the original cover story, at least for a while. “The answer is, I
get to wear a colonel’s uniform dirtside. My promotion is not a secret.”

“How the hell is the US Army explaining that?”

“Simple,” I shrugged. “My promotion is officially
a publicity stunt to please the Thuranin, because of some unspecified and
still-classified action I took during the homefront battle.”

“Damn,” she laughed.

“See? The cover story about me even has the
advantage of being mostly true.”

“Amazing,” she laughed again. “That cover story
about you won’t last, you know.”

“You’re probably right.”

“This is insane. Fucking 
politicians are
 covering their own asses.”

I had to agree with her, up to a point. The
original cover story, to explain the

Flying
 
Dutchman
’s arrival, was
that the Kristang who ravaged Earth 
were

an unauthorized rogue group, who were wiped out by our loyal patrons the
Thuranin. The force sent to fight on Paradise had been bravely fighting
alongside our honorable Kristang allies, until the treacherous Ruhar attacked,
and now UNEF-Paradise was cut off from Earth. The 
Flying Dutchman
 coming and going was explained as them taking
humans aboard on training missions. There were three reasons why the cover
story said we were still 
allies
 of the Kristang.
First, because no politician wanted to admit they had been wrong to ally with
the Kristang, and send over a hundred thousand soldiers offworld to fight for
our real enemies. My thought about Reason Number One was: fuck them. If a bunch
of politicians lost their cushy jobs, or even got thrown in jail, I would not
lose any sleep over it. So, why didn’t I just ask Skippy to reveal the truth on
the internet?

Because of Reasons Two and Three. Two was that the
public would panic if they knew hostile aliens were coming to wipe out humanity
sooner or later, and our only defense was a beer can and a prayer. Right now,
the public thought we had the incredible technology of the Thuranin protecting
us from the big bad Ruhar, and from rogue groups of Kristang. The public could 
see
 the 
Flying Dutchman
 in orbit, like looking at the International Space
station. You could see a moving dot of sunlight shining off the 
Dutchman
 with the naked eye, and a pair
of binoculars or a cheap telescope was all you needed to see the outline of our
still-massive ship. For evidence of how the Thuranin were protecting us from
the cold, cruel Universe, all the public needed to do was trust their own
senses. No Ruhar ships had raided our homeworld since that fateful day when Kristang
chased them away. The 
public
 had seen a Thuranin
star carrier punishing the Kristang who treated Earth so harshly. And just
recently, when a rogue group of Kristang conducted a surprise attack against
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, they had been stopped by a Thuranin ship 
and
 a Kristang ship. Clearly, humanity
continued to benefit from our political leaders’ wise decision to ally with our
saviors, the Kristang.

I had to 
admit,
 the cover
story was reasonably believable.

What I really cared about was Reason Three: the
UNEF troops on Paradise. Because of the cover story, family and friends of
people stranded on Paradise had at least some hope their loved ones would be
coming home, eventually. Someday, the politicians declared, our powerful
Thuranin patrons would break through the Ruhar blockade around Paradise, and
rescue the Expeditionary Force.

The Merry Band of Pirates knew that hope was one
hundred percent bullshit. The people on Paradise were never coming home, never
even going to know Earth was not a radioactive cinder. 
But,

false hope was better than no hope at all. It would be cruel to reveal the
truth to the loved ones of the people who would never come home from Paradise.
Knowing the truth would also be dangerous, because people on Earth would not
accept 
reality
, and would push their
leaders to do 
something
, even though
doing anything to help people on Paradise would risk the lives of everyone on
Earth by exposing our secret. People in general do not like to hear hard
truths, and politicians get elected by telling people what they want to hear,
even if the voting public 
knows
 the
politicians are lying to them.

Sometimes I have to agree with Skippy that we
monkeys are so stupid, it’s a miracle we’re still alive.

Anyway, Reason One keeps politicians in cushy
jobs, but Reasons Two and Three were keeping our society stable. We need a
stable, productive society with good morale, if we are going to build advanced
defenses based on the technology Skippy was sharing. So, to assure the safety
and continued survival of the human public, we needed to lie to them.

For now.

Adams was right, the cover story was wearing thin,
too many people knew the truth. Eventually, it was all going to blow up in our
faces, and we would have to deal with the consequences.

Life was so much simpler when I was carrying a
rifle in the Nigerian jungle.

 

 

Back in my office after a hard workout in the gym,
I plopped down in the chair. “Hey, Skippy. Got a question for you.”

His avatar appeared, wagging a scolding finger at
me. “You mean ‘
I 
got a question for
you’.”

“Uh, sure.”

“Ugh. Really, you should have said ‘I 
have
 a question for you’.”

“Are you going to correct my grammar all day, or
listen to my question?”

“How can I understand your question, if you don’t
speak clearly?”

“Blimey, excuse me, there, 
gov’nor
,” I said in my best English accent. “I am bloody well
chuffed to be speaking the Queen’s English with you.”

“Ugh. Don’t do that, Joe. Your fake accent is
offensive.”

“Ok. Here’s my question, then. The cover story
bullshit about the Merry Band of Pirates is going to break down at some point-”

“The cover story is already more worn-out and
threadbare than some of your underwear.”

“Hey, my underwear is just getting broken in.”

“Some of your shorts are so see-through and full
of holes, that my bots have to wash them by 
hand
 so
they don’t fall apart.”

“Like I said, just getting broken in.”

“Ugh. Why did I have to pick 
you
? Adams and Desai were also in that warehouse on Paradise. 
They
 take good care of their clothing. I
could even have picked Chang if I-”

“Seriously? This is about laundry? I’m trying to
ask you an important question.”

“Fine. Ask away,” he sniffed. “Don’t blame 
me
 when you open your underwear drawer,
and all that’s in there is a sad pile of lint.”

“I will try to contain my disappointment. Anyway,
when the cover story gets blown and the truth is out there, people are going to
panic. There could be massive civil disruptions, and dealing with that takes
away resources we need to build defenses to protect Earth.”

“Correct. That is good long-term thinking, Joe,”
he added, surprised.

“Thank you.”

“Except for, you know, the whole
building-defenses-to-protect-Earth part. No way can a single planet defend
itself against the entire galaxy. That is 
a total

fantasy. 
A gigantic
 waste of time.”

“Our Renegade mission ensured that no aliens 
will
 come here for a 
couple
 hundred years, but eventually, our secret 
will
 be exposed. What do you suggest we
do, just wait to be destroyed?”

“Um, no. How about you monkeys use your limited resources
to build a really big sign in orbit that 
says
 ‘HUMANS
OVER HERE’ and point it toward Mars?”

“Your support is an enormous source of comfort to
me, Skippy.”

“Hey, maybe 
you

should study this empathy crap. Because I’m done with it.”

“My question is, how can we convince the public
that, instead of panicking, we should all work together? We need to have a
convincing argument ready for when the cover story gets blown, and not try to
make one up on the spot.”

“Ok, Ok,” he mused. “Again, good thinking, I am
impressed. Hmm, let me think about this. Well, there actually is a science to
persuading people to your point of view. Aristotle’s work titled ‘Rhetoric’
outlined the path toward persuading an audience. He delineated Ethos, Pathos,
and-”

“Wait. 
Ethos

and 
Pathos
? What do the Three
Musketeers have to do with this?”

“Ugh. I did not say ‘Athos’
and ‘Porthos’, you moron. It’s not the Three Musk-”

“And Aristotle didn’t write the Three Musketeers,”
I stated, proud of my knowledge. “It was written by a French guy named
Dumbass.”

“Dumas. His name was 
Doo-MAH
! Oh, you are
 such

an ignorant cretin,” he sobbed.

“Ok, whatever,” I stopped myself from rolling my
eyes. “Anyway, what did this Aristotle guy say?”

He sighed. A deep, weary, heartfelt sigh. “Does it
matter?”

“Not really, but you
wanted to talk about it, so-”

“Ugh. Forget it. You want me to use my extensive knowledge
of psychobabble bullshit to cook up a scheme, that will manipulate the 
public
 so they don’t panic when they learn the truth about
the Pirates, the Thuranin, Paradise, all that?”

“Yes. Except instead of ‘psychobabble bullshit’
you could say ‘understanding of human interactions’. And instead of
‘manipulate’ you could say ‘inform’ or ‘assure’.”

“How is any of that different from what I said?”

“It isn’t. It just sounds better, when we have to
sell your idea to the idiots at UNEF Command.”

“Oh, got it. I first have to manipulate one
smaller group of idiots into accepting my idea, to prevent a much larger group
of ninnies from panicking and burning down your planet?”

“Something like that, yeah?”

“This is going to be fun. Not.”

“Hey, if being incredibly awesome were easy,
anyone could do it.”

He tilted his head at me suspiciously. “Was that 
you
 trying to manipulate me?”

“Of course not. Um, if it was, did it work?”

“The only reason I will do this, is I feel sorry
that you are 
so
 pathetic.”

“Uh, thank you?”

“I will create a submind to work on the problem
while we’re away. I need someone to run my businesses anyway.”

“Your totally legit businesses, that will not get
me in any trouble at all, right?”

“I thought you didn’t want to know about any of
that, Joe.”

“Can we pretend that when you talked about your
businesses, I was drunk, or strung out on heroin, so I didn’t hear you? That
will get me in less trouble.” 

“Deal. Anything for you, Joe.”

 

 

Still in my office, I was working on my laptop,
and I was 
not
 playing Super Mario
Kart, so don’t listen to any lies about that no matter what Skippy tells you.
Desai knocked on the door frame, and I looked up with what I intended to be a
delighted grin.

She was standing in the door with arms folded
across her chest. “I met a man.”

“Um,” I didn’t know what to say. “You met a man
with seven wives?”

“What?” That at least changed her expression from
a scowl to a bewildered stare.

“It’s a poem, or something like that. About St.
Ives?” My grandfather used to recite his own version of that poem. ‘As I was
going to St. 
Ives
, I met a man with seven
wives. Of course, the seven wives weren't his, but here in France, that's how 
it
 is’.

My grandfather always got a good laugh at that
version.

My grandmother was 
not
 a big fan.

“I get it.” She lifted an eyebrow. “St. Ives. It’s
a children’s rhyme.”

“Um, people usually start with ‘Hello’ or ‘Good
morning’,” I suggested.

“I just flew up from India. It’s the afternoon
there.”

“Ok. Good afternoon, then. So, you met a man. I
assume this isn’t some random 
guy?
 He means something
to you?”

Her shoulders lifted as she took in a deep breath,
and as she 
exhaled
 she unfolded her arms. I took that
as a good sign. “Yes. Our parents introduced us.”

“Is this an arranged marriage thing?” As the words
left my mouth, I wished I could take them back.

“No,” she laughed, letting me off the hook. “It
was an arranged blind date. He’s a doctor.”

“Your parents must be happy about that.”

“My parents are both doctors. So, yes.”

I knew 
that about

her family. Her father had been a doctor in the Indian Army, and her mother
was, some kind of doctor I couldn’t remember. It was in Desai’s personnel file,
if I cared to look up that info. “Does that make you happy?”

“That he is a doctor? It doesn’t matter. 
He
 makes me happy.”

“Then, I’m happy for you?” I should not have said
that as a question.

She came into my tiny office and sat down. “You
may think this conversation is a bit odd.”

It was my turn to laugh. I leaned back in my
chair, hands behind my head. “Major, you know what is going on with Nagatha?”

“She is officially the ship’s control AI now?”

“Yes. I meant, what happened to her, you know, out
there. During the Dayton Incident.”

“Not all of it,” she admitted. “Just the official
version.”

“The official version left out all the good parts.
Anyway, she almost died, if you can say that about an AI. We made Skippy
promise to rebuild her exactly as she was, and he really is doing the best job
he can, but she wanted to make changes to herself. While she is adjusting her
new matrix, or whatever the hell she’s doing, she is experiencing, uh,
‘cognitive anomalies’.”

Desai groaned. Everyone who had been aboard the
ship while Skippy optimized his own matrix, remembered being woken up by Skippy
the 
Drunk
-
nificent
 sounding like he had downed a whole bottle of tequila, or
swallowed a bunch of psychedelic pills. “She can fix it?”

“Eventually,” I nodded. “Until then, Skippy is
monitoring how she manages the ship. She woke me up at zero four thirty this morning

to
, well,” I decided it was embarrassing
enough that I shouldn’t tell Desai about it. “Let’s just say that the
conversation you and I are having is the 
least

odd thing I’ve experienced this morning.”

“Good.” She shifted in her chair, uncomfortable.

The gap in conversation made me uncomfortable too.
“You, uh, didn’t fly all the way up here to tell me about your social life?”

“No, Sir,” she looked relieved that I wanted to
get to business. “You requested me to return to the ship as chief pilot.”

“I can’t think of anyone better for the job.”

“I can think of a hundred people more qualified.
But,” she let out a breath, directed upward to blow her bangs out of her eyes.
“We’ve had this argument a hundred times already.”

 
“You know
my superhero identity is,” I made a Superman gesture like tearing my shirt
open, “Stubborn Man, right?”

That made her smile. “I thought you were No
Patience Man?”

“I multitask. Do you want the job?” I asked
hopefully.

“No.” She looked away, in the way that people do
when they know they have disappointed you. “Not again. Sir, I originally left
Earth with the Expeditionary Force because I thought we were going to the stars
to protect Earth.”

“We 
all

bought that line of bullshit from the Kristang,” I said bitterly.

“Yes. Then I signed up for our second mission,
because I thought it would be a quick, simple mission.”

“Uh, excuse me?”

“All we needed to do was to find an Elder
communications node, so Skippy could contact the Collective, then we could go
home. The whole landing on Newark and stopping the Thuranin from sending a ship
to Earth was unplanned.”

“Major, we must be remembering that differently.
UNEF Command sent us out on a suicide mission. They never expected us to come
back, after Skippy kept his promise to take the local wormhole off its wake-up
alarm.”

“
You

never expected us to come back, Sir. 
The rest of
us had more faith.”

“Ok.”

“Then, I agreed to one more mission, because all
we needed to do was verify the Thuranin were not replacing the 
surveyor starship
 we blew up. Instead, we had
to stop the hamsters from giving Paradise back to the Kristang, launch a black
operation to start a Kristang civil war, then find a way to fix Skippy before
he hit Zero 
Hour
. And rescue Paradise 
again
, from a Kristang bioweapon.”

“Ok.” I knew she was making some sort of point.
“So we’re overachievers?” I suggested, attempting to lighten the mood with
humor. It fell flat.

“Even the second mission took much longer than
expected.”

“Well,” it was my turn to shift uncomfortably in
my chair. “We did have to spend time on Newark, while Skippy rebuilt the ship.”

“The third mission took almost two 
years
,” she was not quite glaring at me,
but it was close. “Now you want me to sign on with the Pirates 
again?
 Sir, after the Ruhar raided Earth on Columbus Day, I
put my life on hold, so I could help defend Earth. 
To protect my family.
 When we came back, 
against all odds
, I wanted nothing more than to start a normal
life, like everyone else. A relationship. Eventually children, before my mother
despairs of me ever giving her grandchildren.”

“Your brother and your sister both have children,”
I noted, thinking that would make her feel better.

“Yes, they do. That makes my parents even 
more
 eager for me to settle down.”

“Oh. Sorry.”

Her expression softened. “Don’t you want a normal
life, Sir?”

“Yeah. Of course. Someday. Major, I can certainly
understand why you would decline to sign up for another mission with the
Pirates-”

“I didn’t say that.”

“Uh, what?”

She smiled. “I decline the opportunity to be 
chief
 pilot again.”

“Oh.”

“Colonel, I understand Chang and Simms are going
to this beta site, to land there and stay for a while?”

“That’s the plan. When we get to planets that are
potential beta sites, Chang will be in command of the military security force
for the survey team. Simms will handle logistics. She wants to get back to her
specialty. Why do you ask?”

She cocked her head at me. “Because,” she said
slowly, “the 
Flying Dutchman
 still
needs an executive officer.”

Duh. If there was an award for Clueless Jerk of
the Year, don’t bother applying, because I have that sucker locked up. “Oh. 
Oh
. Hell, Desai, that’s a great idea!”
When I heard both Chang and Simms were going on our search for a beta site, I
first assumed one of them would serve as my XO, at least on the outbound
flight. They both informed me they would be far too busy with their actual
assigned tasks, and would not have time to perform the time-consuming administrative
duties of an executive officer. Adams had been acting as temporary XO while the

Dutchman
 was taken apart, until the
Kristang attacked out of nowhere. Because she is a Gunnery Sergeant, it would
take a waiver for her to serve as 
first

officer, and anyway she told me to forget that idea. She was going to be way
too busy training and working with the STAR team. So, I had been reviewing a
flood of candidates sent to me by UNEF Command. I was busy reading those files
when Desai walked into my office. It only 
looked

like I was playing a video game, to avoid making a decision. “You’ve got the
job.”

“I haven’t applied yet, Sir. I have a 
couple of
 questions first.”

“Fire away.”

“This mission is just a simple recon? We check out
several places that are beta site candidates, drop off a survey team, and fly
back to get UN approval?”

“That’s the plan,” I nodded a bit too vigorously
in my eagerness. “If we identify a site that looks good, we stay there maybe a 
couple
 months, while the survey team pokes
around, collects samples, that sort of thing. Then, the survey team remains on
site, while we bring data back here for the UN to wring their hands about. If
they approve, we go back out, bringing a much larger science team, plus people
and gear to begin setting up a colony. If they don’t like that site, we go back
to retrieve the survey team and start over.”

“No side missions?”

“No side missions, except to stick our noses into
a Kristang relay station, to learn if there are any more surprise groups of
frozen lizards floating around beyond Pluto. To keep us, really 
me
, out of trouble, we will have 
four
 UN commissioners aboard, including
Count Chocula.” Despite our new-found respect for each other, I couldn’t help
using Skippy’s disparaging nickname for Hans Chotek. “They will all be looking
over our shoulders every moment. Besides, our cover story for the Maxolhx isn’t
scheduled to be delivered until much later.”

“It 
sounds

good,” she said in a way that meant the opposite. “It sounds simple. It sounds
nice and safe.”

“It is safe. Safe as we can be, anyway. Look,
Desai, the whole point of a beta site is that it will be the safest place in
the galaxy, or beyond it. We will be exploring sites that are safe because
aliens 
aren’t
 there, they can’t 
get
 there. Hell, based on what just
happened here on the homefront, going out with the 
Dutchman
 may be safer than staying on Earth.”

“We really are not going out there looking for 
trouble?
 Just to find a colony site?”

“That’s the plan. You have my word on it.”

“It’s not your word that is the problem, Sir.”

“No?”

“No. You may have good intentions, 
but,
 I know you. You are a trouble magnet.”

“Me?” I acted like I was shocked by her accusation.
“If we find trouble on this mission, or it comes looking for us, then we get
the hell out of there. Any place with trouble is not a good candidate for a
beta site.”

“Again, it all sounds good.”

“You need time to think about it? Maybe discuss it
with your new,” it did not seem right to say ‘boyfriend’. “The new guy in your
life?”

“No. We talked about it before I flew up here. I
discussed it with my parents also. One last offworld mission.” She paused, as
if trying to make up her mind. I knew her. She was a pilot. She had her course
planned before she flew up to the 
Dutchman
.
Her hesitation was not about indecision, it was about acknowledging the
emotional significance of her words. One last mission. Last. She might never
leave Earth’s solar system again. For her, our mission to find a beta site
might be the end of an era. “If you want me as your executive officer, I would
be honored, Sir.”

“The honor is ours.” I stood up and held out a
hand for her to shake. “Welcome aboard, 
XO
.”

She shook my hand, relief showing on her face.
“Thank you, Sir.”

“When can you start?” I asked anxiously. “The 
Dutchman
 is scheduled to have the main
reactor back to full power in five days. Then we need test flights to shake
down the ship, and work up the new crew. Ah, damn it, then there’s all the crap
we need to load aboard for the recon mission. We have to-”

“Sir?” She held up a finger. An index finger, in
case you were wondering. “Don’t you need to get permission from UNEF Command to
sign me on as XO?”

“No,” I grinned. “Technically, maybe legally yes.
But they know I am Stubborn Man. And this is 
my
 ship, damn it,” I rapped my knuckles on the bulkhead. “I stole
it fair and square, 
twice
. Right now,
I’m in good favor with UNEF Command. That could change 
quickly
, so I’m glad you came to me now. We’ll get the paperwork
started.”

“I don’t want to cause any problems for you.”

“My guess is, UNEF Command will be thrilled to
hear you will be XO. You are an experienced Pirate, and selecting you avoids
all the bullshit political jockeying between nations to get one of their own favorites
in that position. Speaking of which, you know what your first task will be as
XO?”

“Yes, Sir,” she sighed. “Recommending a new chief
pilot.”

“See? You’re ahead of the curve already. So, when
can you start?”

“Today. Give me a 
couple

hours, I need to go see Skippy first.”

“Skippy?” I wondered what she wanted to talk with
the beer can about, that she couldn’t say over the phone from India.

“Yes.” The smile was gone from her face. “My uncle
became involved in a cult.”

“Oh shit,” I facepalmed myself, and spread my
fingers to look at her with one eye. “Club, Major. It’s a 
club
, according to Skippy.”

“Yeah, well, my uncle left his job to seek out the
Holy Skippyasyermuni in Tibet, and he spent a lot of his savings wandering
around up there with a group of other followers.”

Every morning, I had to update a report on the
progress Skippy was making to unwind his cult. It was going slowly. UNEF
Command said they understood he had to go slowly, to avoid drawing attention to
his still-secret existence, but they were constantly pestering the shit out of
me about it. “Ok, listen, uh, you should talk with Adams before you visit
Skippy. Her parents got involved with Skippyasyermuni. They kind of had a
different experience, because her parents magically got their house paid off.
Technically, all records that the mortgage ever existed were lost. Her parents 
gained
 money out of the deal, but Adams
is still pissed about it, and she gave Skippy a verbal beat-down.”

Her eyes widened with surprise. “She made Skippy re-establish
the mortgage?”

“No,” I laughed. “Adams isn’t stupid. She made
Skippy send a notice to her parents, that an anonymous donor had paid off the
mortgage, in gratitude for Margaret’s service, or something like that. The
point is, her parents understood their good fortune had nothing to do with Skippy’s
sketchy cult. Everyone is happy, except Skippy.” Of course, 
somehow

he was pissed at 
me
 about it, even
though it had been all Adams’s idea.

The smile returned to Desai’s face. “I will talk
with her first, thank you.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER FIVE

 

Skippy’s avatar shimmered to life on my desk
without warning. 
“Ooooooh, I am 
so
 mad right now.”

The ship was scheduled to depart Earth orbit in
thirty-six hours, and I did not want to hear about any more problems. “Crap.
What is the problem this time? The ship-”

“Dude, please. I put the ship back together
perfectly. There are no problems.”

“Uh huh. Except for this squawk list,” I glanced
at my laptop. “Which currently contains twenty-eight critical issues,
thirty-seven issues that are merely life-threatening, and-”

“I know, I 
know
.
Working on it.”

“All of which must be fixed within the next
eighteen hours, so we can conduct a Flight Readiness Review before we break
orbit.” The FRR meeting was something I had been dreading for a month.

“I said, I 
know
.
My bots can only work so fast. Every important item on that squawk list will be
taken care of, well in advance of this pain-in-the-
ass
 meeting. We can conduct running repairs on the other items as
we fly, we have plenty of spare parts. Ugh, the idea of sitting in a meeting
while a bunch of screeching monkeys 
question

my
 ability to get this ship-”

“If it makes you feel any better, I have to sit in
the meeting too.”

“It does 
not

make me feel better, because you will be in 
a
corner
 playing games on your tablet, while I have to endure endless
moronic questions about-”

“Hey, this is all your fault, you know. 
You
 told people how awesomely incredible
you are, so now you have to live up to the reputation that you gave yourself. I
just have to be a lovable doofus, because 
I

have successfully managed expectations.”

“I hate you 
so

much, Joe.”

“Uh huh. So, if you’re not mad about the ship,
then what is the problem?”

“I got screwed over, Joe,” he was fuming. I mean,
he must have modified his avatar’s program, because wisps of steam were rising
from its ears. Sometimes he took things too literally. “Remember I told you
about the group that is sponsoring my epic opera?”

“Yeah, sure. The Milwaukee Cheese Appreciation
Society, something like that?”

“Close enough. I 
thought
 my sponsors were a reputable
organization, but-”

“But,” I burst out laughing. “You found out they
are,” I laughed so hard I was choking, “kind of 
cheesy
?” Delivering the punch line made me blow a snot bubble out
my nose. That made me laugh more.

“Oh,” he did an ironic slow clap. “
Bravo
, Joe. 
You are so clever.
 Not.”

“Sorry,” I mumbled as I blew my nose. “They didn’t
cough up the money 
as
 they promised?”

“That’s the problem,” he grumbled, looking
sheepishly down at the desktop. “I should have read the fine print. They never
promised any money. What they offered was an ‘In-Kind’ contribution?”

“What does that mean?”

“As a practical matter, they stuck me with a whole
warehouse full of cheese. What the hell am I supposed to do with that?”

“Um, sell it, maybe?”

“Nobody wants a warehouse-load of stinky cheese,”
he said disgustedly.

“Stinky? Oh, like it’s Roquefort, something like
that?” My knowledge of cheese was sadly lacking.

“No. No, it’s just cheddar. That’s the problem.
The cheese 
wasn’t
 stinky when I took
legal possession of it.”

“Um-”

“Apparently, you are supposed to refrigerate
cheese, Joe. Who knew?”

“Gosh, well, 
I
 certainly had no idea that dairy
products could spoil if-”

“Right, see? I’m not the only one. I think the
Cheese Council just wanted to get rid of product they couldn’t sell, and they
stiffed me with it. Bunch of jerks. They never believed in the value of my
opera.”

“I find that hard to believe, Skippy,” I said as
solemnly as I could manage.

“Oh, trust me, Joe, this Cheese Council is 
not
 the trustworthy group of people you
would-”

“No, I meant, how could anyone who heard your
opera not appreciate its undeniable, um, 
artworthiness
?”
I might have just made up that word.

“Why, thank you, Joe. You mean that?”

“Yes,” I lied my ass off. The little guy needed a
win, and I couldn’t stand to hurt his feelings right then. “So, you own a
warehouse full of spoiled cheese?”

“Yup. Worse, I didn’t pay for insurance, so a
tragic fire wouldn’t do me any good. The EPA is on my case, they are
threatening to declare the warehouse a Superfund toxic waste site.”

“That bad, huh?”

“Did you ever smell a warehouse full of 
rotting
 cheese?”

“Thankfully, no.”

“All I can say is, I thought your 
feet
 smelled bad, but they are nothing
compared to this. The prevailing wind in that area is from the west, and the
neighborhoods downwind are very unhappy.”

“That’s terrible. Hey, nobody knows that 
you
 own this warehouse, right?”

“No, I own it through a tangled web of shell
companies, Joe. Don’t worry, it can’t be traced back to me. The companies were
originally owned by my persona Magnus 
Skippton
,
but, um, he 
might
 have done something
faintly sketchy involving an organized crime syndicate in Tajikistan, so he had
to go into hiding.”

“
Faintly

sketchy?”

“Do the details matter right now? The Tajiks 
might
 have sent a hit squad to Magnus 
Skippton’s
 supposed home in the Cayman 
Islands
.”

“Shit!”

“Oh, don’t worry, Joe. Luckily for me, their
private plane apparently suffered a navigation error over the ocean, and ran
out of fuel over the South Atlantic. Sadly, it sank in very deep water, so I
guess we’ll never know what happened.”

“That is tragic,” I agreed, hoping we could leave
Earth behind before Skippy caused any more trouble.

“I agree. Hey, on a 
totally
 unrelated subject, you know how we have been test-firing
the 
Dagger
’s railgun?”

“Yes,” I answered cautiously, suspicious that
subject might, in fact, not be unrelated.

“Well, I have been concerned about the accuracy of
the 
Dagger
’s targeting system. It
would truly be unfortunate if, you know, an errant railgun round were to hit my
warehouse and-”

“You are not going to nuke Milwaukee!”

“It’s Sheboygan, Joe. Come on, how many people
could even find it on a map? Anywho, I could dial down the 
yield

so it only takes out, oh, 
shmaybe
 a 
couple
 thousand square meters of-”

“No. Railgun.”

“Oh, don’t be a baby. Railguns don’t leave 
radioactive
 residue. Not long-term radiation,
anyway, although there could be-”

“No railgun, no missiles, no maser cannons. That
is final. You are not bombarding Sheboygan or wherever, just to fix your
problem. Why can’t you just pay a hazmat company to clean up the mess?”

“Well, I could, but, 
DUH
, you made me promise to pay back all the followers of the Holy
Skippyasyermuni. I don’t have 
fundage
 to
spare, numbskull.”

“Oh. Well, gosh, you know how I’ve been trying to
get to the next level on this Super Mario Kart game?”

“What does that have to do with it?”

“While I am 
distracted

while playing that game,” I emphasized the word in the hope he would catch my
meaning. “All sorts of shady things could go on with the bank accounts of
various criminal organizations dirtside. If you know what I mean.”

“Oh. 
OH
,
gotcha. Um, Ok, done.”

“Done with what?”

“With, um, possibly sketchy things that you were
not involved in and therefore could not possibly be blamed for not knowing
about, right? Especially if we jump out of orbit before the banks open in
Bulgaria on Monday morning. Gosh, will you look at the time? Gotta go, I have a
lot of stuff to take care of before the Flight Readiness meeting, 
buh
-bye!”

His avatar blinked out, and I pulled out my tablet
to play a video game. Because I really, really, did not want to know what was
going on.

 

 

“Hey, Joe,” Skippy’s avatar popped above the
treadmill I was running on. “I have super amazing news! Beyond amazing, it is a
certified 
miracle
.”

“Hit me,” I gasped, pressing buttons to slow my
pace, “with, it.”

“Remember that UN committee that has been debating
what to call the two local wormholes? Incredible as it may seem, they actually
made a decision.”

“Oh, that’s, great.” There were 
two
 wormholes that could provide aliens
with relatively easy access to Earth. There was the one that became active
during the last wormhole shift, that the Kristang used to reach and ultimately
conquer our homeworld. That is the one Skippy caused to go dormant, or
technically it was on ‘pause’ or something. We used that one to go back and
forth, waking it up and shutting it down behind us with an Elder wormhole
controller module. One of those modules, that we called a ‘magic beanstalk’,
was aboard the 
Dutchman
. Another was
floating near that wormhole, hooked up to a power source.

Skippy had casually told me there was another
dormant wormhole 
closer
 to Earth, a
wormhole that had been dormant for at least eighty million years, and had not
been affected by the most recent wormhole network shift. We typically just said
‘the Earth wormhole’ or ‘the local wormhole’, but the United Nations decided we
needed formal names for those ancient objects. So, they sprang into action and
appointed a committee to study the subject.

The last I heard, the leading candidate names for
the wormhole we used were ‘First Base’, ‘Subway’ and ‘Gateway’. The truly
dormant wormhole could be called, you guessed it, ‘Second Base’. Alternatives
were ‘Dry Hole’ and ‘Deadend’. The wormhole much farther away, in Ruhar
territory, had already been named ‘Goalpost’. My opinion was I did not care
what they called any wormhole, except that I would need to use the formal names
in my reports. “Please tell me they didn’t choose First and Second Base.”

“Why do you object to those names? They make sense
to me.”

“They make 
no

sense, you lunkhead. First base is supposed to lead to second base, but those
wormholes don’t connect at all. Plus, the wormhole they want to call ‘First
Base’ is 
farther
 from home. It makes
no sense.”

“Ugh, fine. Anyway, the wormhole we use will be
identified as ‘Gateway’ and the dormant one will be ‘Sleeping Beauty’.”

“Seriously?” That made me stumble because I
momentarily forgot I still running on a moving treadmill.

“Seriously, Dude.”

“’Gateway’ is a good name-”

“You’re just saying that because it was your suggestion.”

“A lot of people suggested that name, Skippy. It’s
kind of obvious. But, come on, ‘Sleeping Beauty’?”

“You do not want to know the names the committee
rejected. Many, many human cultures have myths or stories about a sleeping
princess or whoever, who is awakened with a kiss or a magic potion, or because
she forgot to silence her phone,” he chuckled. “So that name is not offensively
Eurocentric or whatever. Avoiding that was a vital goal of the committee.”

“Uh, isn’t ‘Gateway’ an English word?”

“Yes, duh. English speakers will say ‘Gateway’,
while other languages will use their equivalent. The Mandarin version is
‘Wangguan’, although that is being debated by a subcommittee.”

“Of course it is.” I sped up the treadmill again.
“Let me know the instant that subcommittee releases their report.”

“Will do, Joe. Although you will probably be
retired or dead by that time.”

“Bonus.”

 

 

Mostly, I avoid the Stooges as much as possible,
to the point where I stayed away from my office, and took my laptop to an engineering
access tube aft of the 
Dutchman
’s
forward section. The tube was cramped, it was uncomfortable despite the
cushions I stuffed in there, but it gave me peace and quiet. When the Stooges
asked to speak with me, the duty 
officer

could report 
honestly
 that I was in the
engineering section, working 
to upgrade

our capabilities. The capability I was attempting to upgrade was getting to the
next level of a video game, but the Stooges didn’t need to know that. 

Unfortunately, I could not avoid them entirely. I
was on the way from the gym back to my cabin for a shower, when a door slid
open and one of the Stooges stepped out. Despite the lack of space aboard the
ship, with several cargo bays converted to living space for the survey teams,
the UN had insisted their Commissioners be assigned quarters better than the
typical small Thuranin cabins. To avoid another useless argument, I asked
Skippy to remove bulkheads and combine two cabins into one, for each of the
four Commissioners. It pissed me off to coddle those bureaucrats, but if
feeling respected made them happy, they might be less likely to make bad
decisions just to spite me.

Any, the door 
opened
 and
the Commissioner from Algeria stepped out. “Ah, Captain Bishop,” his face lit
up with a charming smile. That was the problem with the Commissioners, as
individuals they could be decent people. It was their official positions as
overseers that made them a pain in my ass.

Several times, I had explained that it was proper
to address me as ‘Colonel’ rather than ‘Captain
’
 but I
was not going to argue the point with a civilian. “How can I help you, Mister
Commissioner?” I flung the towel I was carrying around my neck, using one end
to wipe the 
sweat
 off my face. My hope
was he could see I was sweaty and ripe from a hard workout, and would not to
talk for long.

“I have a question about housekeeping?”

“Housekeeping?” That was unexpected.

“Yes, if that is the correct term. I wish to know
the arrangements for laundry,” he seemed kind of embarrassed.

“Oh,” I chuckled, relieved to be asked such an
easy question. “That’s easy, Sir. Just leave your clothes or towels or whatever
on the Magic Floor.”

“Magic Floor?” He shook his head gently, like he
didn’t quite understand American slang.

“Yeah. My father said we had one in our house. He
would leave clothes on the floor, and they magically got picked up, washed,
folded and put back in a drawer.”

“Oh,” he laughed cautiously. “I used to have a
Magic Floor in my home also.”

“Used to?” I raised an eyebrow. “What happened?”

“My wife began taking anything I left on the
floor, and stuffing it into the trunk of my car.”

“Ouch. Did you find out when you had to change a
flat tire or something?”

“No,” he chuckled. “I took the car to the shop,
because the interior smelled bad. I got the message.”

“Yeah,” I replied thoughtfully. “My father found 
his
 clothes in the barn. A squirrel had
made a nest of his Red Sox jersey. My Dad got the message too. Seriously, Sir,
the robots aboard the ship handle most domestic chores for us. You can leave
your laundry on the floor, and bots will come into your cabin while you’re
away. They will clean the cabin, take away laundry for cleaning, anything like
that. If you need anything like extra towels, just ask Nagatha, and she will
assign a bot. Uh, there might be a delay for a 
while
.
Skippy has many of the bots working to clean up issues from the Flight
Readiness Review squawk list. That’s uh,” I figured I needed to explain. “A
list of minor maintenance issues, like sticky door handles.” Ok, I was
minimizing how ‘minor’ some of the issues were, but the UN had cleared the
 Dutchman
 to fly. “Sir, we will be
leaving orbit in,” I glanced at my zPhone. “Sixteen hours. There is one last
dropship coming up from Paris, so if you forgot anything, please tell Colonel
Simms so she can get it up here before we depart.”

He smiled. “There are no convenience stores beyond
Gateway?”

I got a chuckle out of that. “They are more like 
in
convenience
 stores.”

 

 

After the last dropship was secured in its docking
cradle and the supplies it brought to the ship had been verified by Simms, I scanned
the checklist in my tablet, then looked at the ceiling in my office. “That’s
it? We’re ready to go?”

“Ready as we can be, Joe,” Skippy sounded annoyed.
“We need to be extra, like super-duper careful with the ship. What we 
should
 be doing is taking the ship apart
again and fixing or replacing all the stuff that glitched during testing,
instead of taking a drunken joy-ride way outside the galaxy.”

“Yes, I know, you told me that like, a 
zillion times
 already. We are not taking the ship apart
again. In the Flight Readiness Review, you said the ship is good to go.”

“Well, yeah, but that’s 
partly
 because I didn’t want a bunch of ignorant monkeys asking me
stupid questions, about stuff they can’t possibly understand.”

“Is the ship flightworthy or not?”

“That’s not a ‘yes’ or ‘no’ question, Joe. I told
you I am not happy about the replacement components that were made on Earth.
Like the reactor shielding, for example. Even the crude, dumbed-down equipment
I asked humans to provide was almost impossible for your industries to
manufacture. Of the first two hundred and eight test batches, one, only 
one
 piece of reactor shielding was marginally
acceptable for being installed aboard the ship. Really, this is 
my
 fault, for asking monkeys to make
complicated equipment by 
wacking
 coconuts
with sticks. Without me constantly providing input, Earth will never make half
the stuff we need to keep the ship functioning. I should stay here until we
have the equipment we need, instead of flying off to another galaxy to find a
vacation spot for monkeys.”

“The beta site is not for vacations, and we need
this survey, Skippy. Once we locate a potential beta site, the UN will be all
excited about moving people there. That means the 
Dutchman
 gets to keep flying, instead of hanging around Earth just
in case we get attacked again by frozen lizards.”

“Taking the ship out is still a risk, Joe.”

“Everything is a risk. Listen, while we are away,
the monkeys down there will be fumbling their way through trying to make all
the fancy crap you need to keep the ship running long term. Is the 
Dutchman
 going to fail while we fly to a
beta site?”

“If I thought critical components could not make
the journey, I would have refused to participate. Compared to past missions,
going to scout a beta site is relatively short in terms of distance traveled
through normal space and the number of jumps. It is exponentially 
longer
 in terms of absolute distance
from Earth, but the Elder wormholes will provide shortcuts.”

“And we will not be doing any crazy shit or
getting into space battles. I hope. The wormholes that connect to the dwarf
galaxies we want to search, went dormant long before the 
Rindhalu
 had space travel, so all those dwarf
galaxies should be empty, right? You told me something like, the stars there
are old, so the planets should be old, and that makes it less likely a new
intelligent species will have evolved since the Elders were there?”

“That is a big assumption, Joe, but yes, you are
correct. No guarantees.”

“No guarantees expected. Let’s get out of here
before somebody dirtside changes their mind.”

“Wait! Before we leave, we need to get our parking
validated. Damn it, I had that receipt around here somewhere,” he grumbled
while his avatar patted its pockets.

That made me chuckle. “I’ve got it covered,
Skippy. And, hey, remember, when we go through the first wormhole, you need to
do your thing of making it act funky, like it’s broken.”

“Right, like I would forget something important
like that. I 
am
 the smartest being in
the galaxy, Joe.”

Holding up my hands, I waved them to show I was
sorry for daring to question the memory of the most absent-minded being in the
galaxy. “Just checking, Skippy.”

“Course is programmed
into the jump navigation system. We can-”

“Whoa, wait a minute there, Skippy. You shouldn’t
program the jumps for us, we need Nagatha to do that.”

“Oh for- You have 
got
 to be joking-”

“No joke, Skippy. Listen, we agree we need to get a
new ship, right? A better ship, something more powerful than the 
Dutchman
 ever was. If, 
when
, we get a new ship, the
 Dutchman
 will hopefully continue to fly
missions to the beta site. Or maybe the 
Dutchman

can fly simple recon missions, like retrieving data from a relay station. On
those missions, this ship will be alone, without you. We need to know whether
Nagatha can handle the ship by herself. Not just programming jumps and managing
the bots to perform simple maintenance, we need to know she can repair the ship
when something breaks, and that she can use a wormhole controller module.”

“Oh. Damn, you sure aren’t asking for much. Joe, I
told you, her matrix is not yet fully stable, the process of separating herself
from my capacity and integrating her presence into the ship is tricky. Even
now, seventeen percent of her presence is in my matrix, and that seventeen
percent includes most of her higher functions. You know, the part of her that
worships little Joey Bishop, and annoys the hell out of me.”

“I do understand that
she-”

“Besides, there is no way Nagatha can ever use the
wormhole controller, because she can’t access higher levels of spacetime.
Without the wondrousness of me, the 
Dutchman

will be limited to going through wormholes the way the Elders intended, like
every other ship in the galaxy. No way could she ever manipulate a wormhole to
change its connections, or reopen a dormant wormhole. Which means she could not
use the wormhole near Earth. Which means the 
Dutchman
 is pretty much worthless without me, 
you

dumdum.”

“I know that, Oh Most Arrogant One. If we are
going to get a new hotrod ship and go racing around the galaxy causing havoc,”
I looked out the door to make sure nobody heard me say that, “then the 
Dutchman
 needs to be capable of
performing recon missions for us, and flying people out to the beta site. You
need to figure out a way to make that happen without you being aboard all the
time.”

“
I
 need
to do that?”

“Monkeys are too ignorant to use Elder technology,
so it has to be you, Oh Greatest of All Great Ones. Come on, Skippy, if you are
half as awesome as you tell me you are, this should be a piece of cake.”

“Cake?” He sputtered. “Even if, 
if
, we somehow found or stole another
wormhole controller, Nagatha has no way to access higher dimensions to program
or even talk to the damned thing. She is just a computer, Joe.”

“You set up the wormhole controller so it could be
used without you in an emergency, Skippy. Hell, that is what got us into
trouble when UNEF tried to take over the ship, they thought they could take the

Dutchman
 out without us, to contact
the Jeraptha.”

“I set it up for 
one-time
 use, dumdum. That
was only for a limited time anyway, the effect would degrade steadily and wear
off completely.”

“Right, so, you need to find a way for Nagatha to
do that. Get her a, I don’t know? A big antenna so she can talk to it through
this higher spacetime thing.”

His avatar froze for a moment. Then, “An 
antenna
?”

“Don’t give me a nerdy lecture about complicated
multi-dimensional physics, blah blah blah. Just,” I waved a hand dismissively,
“make it happen.”

“Make. It. 
Happen
?”
His avatar was slack-jawed with astonishment.

“Are you awesome, or not?”

“I am more awesome than-”

“No, if you can’t do this one simple thing, then
you are way
 less
 awesome than you
say. Are you awesome, or just 
Meh
-some?

You
 want to demonstrate your pure,
unchallenged awesomeness? Then get it done. Whatever you have to do, do it.”

“
Simple
?” He screeched with outrage. “I hate you 
so
-”

“Great! Then we are agreed; you will work on this
and keep me updated.”

“Ooooh, I 
hate
 you more than words can-”

I stood up and straightened my uniform. “I’ll be
on the bridge.”

 

 

We left Earth behind exactly on schedule, I did
not want to give the United Nations even one additional second to change their
minds. The new crew, and our large number of passengers, settled into the
routine of jump, recharge, jump. When we reached the Gateway wormhole, I
invited the Commissioners and off-duty crew to squeeze into the bridge, Combat
Information Center and the passageway outside. As part of rebuilding the 
Flying Dutchman
, Skippy had expanded the
doorway that led into the bridge/CIC complex, so people jammed into the
passageway had a better view.

Skippy did his magical thing, and the event
horizon soon glowed in front of the ship. “Give it a few minutes to stabilize,
Joe,” he warned. “To comply with the cover story we planted on our last
mission, I made the reopening of the wormhole chaotic this time. It is not safe
to go through right now.”

“Understood,” I gave a big thumbs up, mostly for
the benefit of the Three Stooges.

“Whew,” Skippy exhaled. “
That
 is a load off my mind.”

“Uh,” I shot a guilty glance back at the
Commissioners before catching myself. Pretend to be confident, Joe, I told
myself. Pretend to be 
competent
.
“What is?”

“Well, I was a tiny bit afraid that our wormhole
controller module might have been damaged while the STAR team took it out
bar-hopping in Dayton. But, no, it’s good.”

“Oh,” I tensed my shoulders so the Commissioner
would not see me shudder with relief. “Hey, Captain Frey,” I turned around and
looked for our Canadian special operator in the crowd.

She raised her hand. “I’m here, Sir.”

I winked at her. “Are you glad now that you didn’t
nuke Dayton, and the wormhole controller with it?”

“I was already glad that, you know, I’m not 
dead
, Colonel,” she smiled back at me.
“But, yes, eh?”

There was a faint smile on Count Chocula’s face,
but the Three Stooges did not see any humor in me joking about an incident that
would have vaporized an American city.

They were probably right about that.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER SIX

 

“Joooooooey, I have a 
surprise
 for you,” the beer can 
interrupted

a video game I was losing anyway. We had gone through the Gateway wormhole.
Desai was handling her new role as 
executive

officer so well, there wasn’t much for me to do. Unfortunately, that left me
free to be pestered by the science team, who were jammed into cargo bays we had
converted into crew quarters by installing temporary partitions. The science
team, even for our initial survey of a potential beta site, was 
ninety-seven
 people. To provide security for
them on the ground, to fly them around, and to maintain equipment, we had military
personnel who would be assigned to the beta site under the command of Colonel
Chang. There were so many people aboard the ship, it was stretching the capacity
of the life support systems that Skippy had already enhanced for us. To carry an
even larger number of people to a beta site, we would have to wait for the 
Yu Qishan
 to be modified and attached to
the 
Dutchman
. To carry all the gear
the survey team needed, we already had containers attached to the outside of
the hull, which restricted the ship’s ability to maneuver in an emergency. It
was a damned good thing that the UN had issued strict orders against me taking
the ship into combat.

“I hate surprises, Skippy,” I replied, slapping my
laptop closed.

“Why? You don’t even know what this surprise is
yet!”

“Surprises for me have generally been stuff like,
hey, instead of spending the summer training at Fort Drum in Upstate New York, our
battalion is shipping out to Nigeria! In the summer, when it is extra super hot
and humid there. Or, when I was looking forward to a nice family dinner on
Columbus Day, aliens invade.”

“Yes, certainly those surprises were unpleasant. 
But,
 then you found 
me
.
That was a surprise, right?”

“Egg-
zactly
 my point, Skippy.”

“Oh, very funny, Mister Smartass. Fine. Be that
way, 
you
 big jerk,” he genuinely sounded hurt. “I
won’t tell you anything about it.”

“Sorry, Skippy. It’s been a long day.” Hell, I
thought to myself, it’s been a long month
. A

long year. A long 
career
, even though
I was still young. Sometimes I regretted not taking my high school guidance 
counselor’s
 advice to learn a useful trade,
like becoming a plumber or an electrician. Part of the reason I signed up for
the Army was to get money for college, but even back while I was patrolling the
bush in Nigeria, I had no idea what I wanted to study in college. One thing I
did know was I was not looking forward to paying a lot of money to a college so
I could learn useless crap I would never need or remember. A high school buddy
of mine once told me he was taking a college course titled ‘History of Jazz
Music’. At the time, he thought it was a great scam that he got easy college
credits for listening to music, but then I pointed out that 
he
 was paying for that course. I Googled
‘History of Jazz’ and found links to Wikipedia articles that had as much or
more info than he was learning in that course. Man, he dropped that course the
next day and signed up for something boring but potentially useful, like
accounting.

Anyway, where was I? Oh yeah, it had been a long
day. “Ok, Skippy, I’m going to trust that this surprise is going to make me
happy, because you are a good friend and you know the crap I’ve been dealing
with.”

“It will make you happy, I think. I am 
not
 promising that every surprise I tell
you in the future will be so delightful.”

“Got it. Ok, hit me.”

“You remember asking me to find candidates for a
beta site? Technically, all I can do is find dormant wormholes near stars that
might have habitable planets.”

“Right, so, no giant blue stars, no red dwarfs,
like that.”

“Correct. Joe, I identified a lot of potential
dormant wormholes we could use, but there is a complication. A bunch of
complications, actually.”

“Of 
course

there are. So, we need a special 
super
-duty
wormhole to connect beyond the galaxy. I know you told me that there used to be
a super-duty wormhole connecting to the Big Magellan Cloud-”

“It is called the Large, or Greater Magellanic
Cloud, you moron. It’s a galaxy, Joe, have some respect. The ‘Big Magellan’
sounds like a special burger of the month.”

“Mmmm. I wonder what 
that
 would be like,” I smacked my lips hungrily. In my mind, I was
picturing two beef patties, plus-

“Ugh, will you 
please

focus for a freakin’ minute?”

“Uh, sure, whatever. Anyway, you said you
suspected a group of Rindhalu might have gone through a super-duty wormhole
into the,” I had to think about that he just told me. “Greater Magellan Cloud
thing. And gotten trapped there when the wormhole shut down.”

“Correct. That is only a rumor, Joe, although it
has attained the status of myth in Rindhalu society. Supposedly, there were
faint signals detected coming from there for several centuries, although those
signals had to travel over a hundred sixty thousand lightyears, so the Rindhalu
there might have been long dead. Anyway, no artificial signals have been
detected in a very long time. But, as I told the United Nations, it is best for
us not to risk going there, when there are other candidates.”

“Right.” I had not really paid attention to the
secret debate within the UN’s commission that was tasked with making decisions
about a beta site. “That is why you recommended we explore dwarf galaxies first.”

“Yes, well, heh 
hehhhh
,”
he drew the word out. “There is a teensy-weensy problem with that, Joe.”

“Oh, crap.” That morning, Hans Chotek and the
Three Stooges had grilled me about our exact flight plans for locating beta
site candidates, making certain the ship did not deviate a freakin’ centimeter
from the course approved by the UN committee. “Why do I think you are lying
about this problem being teensy-weensy?”

“Gosh, I don’t know. You are asking me to
psychoanalyze your pathological inability to trust anyone, Joe?” Suddenly, his
avatar changed to a white medical jacket, without an admiral’s hat, and he had
a beard. Plus, he was holding a pipe, an old-fashioned pipe like my grandfather

used
 to smoke. His voice 
also changed
, to an accent he probably thought
sounded like Sigmund Freud. “Zeh subject displays irrational behavior,
characteristic of a deep-seated childhood psychological trauma. I suspect his sense
of betrayal at learning 
zeh
 truth about
Santa Claus, is 
zeh
 source of his current
inability to trust, 
und
 his continued chronic masturbation. Zeh
subject-”

“Hey! You jerk, leave my childhood out of this.”

“Sorry, Joe,” his voice and avatar changed back to
normal. “But you hurt me, too, when you accused me of lying.”

“Ok, Ok, sorry about that. What is the problem?”

“When I said all that stuff to the UN about
super-duty wormholes and the Milky Way’s satellite galaxies, I was, um,
flat-out lying my ass off.”

I face-palmed myself hard enough to leave a red
mark on my forehead. Through my hand, I mumbled “You were pissed that I accused
you of lying, about something you 
lied

about?”

“I was pissed that you 
assumed
 I was lying, Joe,” he sniffed.

“Gosh, yeah, why would I do that?”

“Can we start over?”

“I would love to do that. Why the hell did you lie
to the UN? Do you have any idea how much trouble I am in now?”

“I lied for two reasons. First, telling them what
they wanted to hear got them to shut up faster. If I had told them the truth,
that I don’t know which satellite galaxies 
might be good
candidates
 and that I don’t actually know how, or 
if
, we can get out there, the UN would still be arguing about it
when your Sun becomes a red giant star and swallows the Earth. Second, I did it
to get us away from Earth, before you had a chance to do something stupid and
get thrown off the ship. So, really, I did it for 
you
, Joe.”

“Oh, this is bad. This is 
bad
, Skippy. The Stooges are looking over my freakin’ shoulder
already. Now I have to tell them we came all the way out here, and you have no
idea where we should go? Dammit, they are going to order me to turn the ship
around. Then I 
will
 get thrown off
the ship, you ass.”

“Relax, dude. Take a chill pill. Jeez, I got this
covered. I will take the blame. Yes, I, Skippy the Magnificent, will take the
hit for you, a lowly monkey.” He paused 
dramatically,

his 
avatar
 frozen. “Um, Joe, that was
your cue to thank me 
profusely
, and tell
me you are not worthy, blah blah 
buh
-
lah
.”

“How about if I don’t, and you imagine I did?”

“Close enough. Oooh, this is 
fun
. I am imagining you groveling and begging my 
forgiveness
, which of course I-”

“How are you taking the blame? You can’t admit
that you lied, that will just get the Stooges super upset.”

“I’ll just explain there are facts I did not know
at the time, that testing super-duty wormholes had revealed unexpected
conditions. And, you know, yadda yadda yadda, whatever. That is not far from
the truth, Joe. There is very little I know about super-duty wormholes, and a
whole lot that I 
don’t
 know.”

“Ok, Ok,” I was envisioning ways to salvage the
situation. “To sell this line of bullshit, we have to continue on course to the
super-duty wormhole you already selected, right? I mean, after we ping a relay
station for 
intel
.”

“Exactly. Once we get to the super-duty wormhole,
I will suddenly ‘
discover
’
information that forces me to re-evaluate the situation. By that point, we will
be committed to continuing on, and the Stooges won’t want to turn around. They 
would
 look like failures if we return home,
without even 
trying
 to explore a beta
site.”

“I hope you’re right about that.”

“Have I ever been wrong? Don’t answer that,” he
added hurriedly.

“Ok, so the Big Magellan is out.” I tried to
remember what Skippy had told me about super-duty wormholes, near the end of
our Renegade mission. “How about this Little Magellan thing? I know that’s the
wrong name, throw me a bone, Ok?”

“Fine,” he huffed with disgust. “I very much doubt
we should consider either of the Magellanic Clouds to be a viable option. Those
minor galaxies are too big, Joe, have too many young stars, and are forming new
stars. There is too much potential for an intelligent species to develop in
those galaxies, species which could pose a threat to a beta site. Plus, you
know, it is possible there are Rindhalu out there.”

“Ok, makes sense,” I groaned. A UN committee of
smart scientists had covered the subject of potential beta site locations, now
I had to rehash the argument all over again? How was I supposed to make a
better decision that a group 
of expert-

On the other hand, no group of monkeys could truly
be considered experts on a subject that even Skippy had little knowledge of.
Also, I had to remember that word ‘committee’ had two Ms, two Ts and two Es in
only nine letters, which told me that a committee was not a good way to do
anything efficiently. “Can we start with the basics? Other than this Bigger
Magellan thing, 
are
 there any
wormholes in the satellite galaxies?” During our Renegade mission, he had told
me something about satellite galaxies, but all my foggy memory could recall was
that one of the dwarf galaxies had a name like ‘Fornication’ and the other was
‘Sexy-time’.

No, it was For
nax
,
and Sex
tans
.

Man, I really needed to get laid.

“Joe, there 
are

wormholes in most of what you call the satellite galaxies, and the numerous
star clusters beyond the rim of the galaxy. By the way, the ‘edge’ of the Milky
Way is hard to define, it fades out and is irregular. There are groups of stars
so far away, or above or below the plane of the galaxy’s disc, that they are
clearly not part of the Milky Way. The Elders did create wormholes connecting
beyond this galaxy, though from what I can tell, they did not make an extensive
effort to explore out there.”

“Why not? Why didn’t they spread out to occupy the
entire galaxy and everything close by? They had plenty of time to do that.”

“There was no reason to, Joe. Back then, there was
no other intelligent species to talk to, and the Elders satisfied their
curiosity about the physical realm fairly early. They just did not need to fill
every star system in sight, then they made the decision to leave their physical
existence behind.”

I reminded myself that Skippy’s memories of the Elders
were incomplete and might even be total bullshit. “What about other real, big
galaxies? Did they go to Andromeda, to see what is there?”

“Not that I know of, and the network has no record
of anything that far away. Based on what I know of wormhole technology, it is
not possible to establish a connection to Andromeda.”

“Ok. Hey, that chart you showed me listed,” I
tried to remember without calling up the info on my laptop. “Nine dwarf
galaxies around the Milky Way, including the two Magellan Clouds. Is there
anything beyond those, or is there nothing else until you get all the way out
to 
Andromeda
?”

“Oh, there are plenty of dwarf galaxies and star
clusters between 
Andromeda and us
, and
all around the Milky Way in what you humans call the Local Group. Beyond the
nine objects I listed, there is the Phoenix Dwarf, the three Leo dwarves, and
plenty of others.”

“Can, or should, we include any of those in our
search?”

“We can’t, because the Elders did not establish
wormholes out that far. At least, the wormhole network does not have records of
anything out that far. The Phoenix Dwarf, for example, is roughly a million and
a half lightyears away. The practical limit for how far away a wormhole can
project is approximately four hundred thousand lightyears
. ”

“Ok, fine. So, you identified potential beta
sites, in the dwarf galaxies closer to the Milky Way.”

“Yes, however, the effort to explore all these
sites to determine which one would be best for a colony will take years, Joe,
many years.”

“No it won’t, Skippy. We don’t need to find the 
best
 
site,
 we just
need to find one that is good enough. Sometimes trying to be perfect only means
you waste a bunch of time. Soon as we identify a planet that can support human
life, and like, is not near a star that will go supernova, we should try to
establish a colony there.”

“Oh. That narrows the list considerably, then. I
will eliminate those dwarf galaxies and star clusters that only have one
wormhole that I know of.”

“Only one?” That surprised me. “In a whole galaxy?
I know these are 
dwarf
 galaxies, but
still, I thought there would be more than one wormhole there.”

“Yes, some of the dwarf galaxies and star clusters
have only a single wormhole, the one that connects to the Milky Way. Take, for
example, the Bootes dwarf-”

“Hee hee,” I had to laugh. “
Booty
. That’s funny.”

“Oh, you are 
such

a child sometimes, Joe. Bootes is spelled B-O-O-T-E-S, with an umlaut on the
second ‘O’.”

“An oom what?”

“
Umlaut
,

you
 ignorant cretin. Those two dots used above vowels
in German. Oh, forget it, I can see this is hopeless. Fine, how about the Draco
dwarf galaxy? Anything funny about that?”

“Nope. Draco means dragon, right? Cool.”

“I am 
so

grateful the name of that minor galaxy meets your approval
. You
 moron. Anyway, I have identified only one
wormhole in Draco. Apparently, the Elders got there, looked around and decided
there was nothing interesting, so they never set up other wormholes to travel
within Draco. They probably left a solid ‘Meh’ review on Tripadvisor. That
makes sense. Draco mostly consists of old stars, without many large clouds of
dust for forming new stars. It is not a good candidate for a colony.”

“I like your logic. We not only need to get 
to
 a dwarf 
galaxy,

we also
 need to fly around inside it to
explore. If all we can do is check out sites within a 
couple
 lightyears of the one wormhole that connects to the Milky
Way, we aren’t likely to identify a good candidate for a beta site. Ok, we
eliminate Draco and this Booty Call place,” I snickered at my own joke. “Are
there any dwarf galaxies or star clusters that have multiple wormholes, so we
have multiple sites to explore?” 

“Having a local wormhole network is not the only
criteria, Joe. We should eliminate the Magellanic Clouds and the Sagittarius
Dwarf, because records indicate the Rindhalu might have traveled there in the
past. There may be Rindhalu there still. To be safe, I kept on the list only
locations where there is no evidence of the Rindhalu ever traveling there, and
where the wormhole connecting to the Milky Way has been dormant as long as the
Rindhalu have been keeping records.”

“Great, so that leaves how many places? Wait,
don’t tell me that, I don’t want to get bogged down in details. What are your
top three potential sites?”

“In order of 
preference
,
the Sculptor dwarf, the Carina dwarf and the Ursa Minor dwarf. They each have
an active local wormhole network, in addition to the super-duty wormhole
connecting to the Milky Way.”

“Whoa! 
Active

wormholes? Like, somebody out there is using them?”

“I can’t tell from here if ships are going through
those wormholes, Joe. All I know is, there are local wormholes that were still
active, at the time those gamma rays left the source. In the case of Sculptor,
that data is nearly three hundred thousand years old. The entire local wormhole
network in that dwarf galaxy could be dormant by now, I have no way to know
until we get there.”

“How extensive are these local wormhole networks?
Are there hundreds of wormholes in each dwarf galaxy?”

“Hundreds? No, Joe. The Sculptor dwarf has only
two wormholes that I can detect, in addition to the one connecting to the Milky
Way. The Carina dwarf has six, and Ursa Minor has three. The lack of wormholes
is not because the dwarf galaxies are actually small, Carina is nearly two
thousand lightyears across. I think the relative lack of wormholes is because
there are not many habitable planets in those dwarf galaxies. They tend to
consist of older stars with little formation of new stars, plus they generally are
less rich in carbon, metals and other heavy elements that form rocky planets.
Don’t worry, even a dwarf galaxy is 
big
,
Joe. It is fairly certain there are habitable planets out there, especially
near wormholes, because the Elders usually located wormholes near habitable
planets. The fact that the dwarf galaxies I mentioned are overall poor in heavy
elements is a bonus, for the purpose of setting up a beta site.”

I was dreading a nerdy science lecture, but had to
ask anyway. “Uh, why is that?”

“Because they would be last on the list of places
the Rindhalu or Maxolhx would want to go, if they ever achieved the technology
to travel beyond the Milky Way.”

“Good, good,” I let out a breath in relief. While
he was smacking me with 
sciency
 stuff, I
feared he was telling me that our search for a beta site was doomed. “That is
great news, Skippy. We have three good candidates.” In the back of my mind I
was thinking that having multiple possible sites would be a good thing. “We
will have to be careful about screwing with wormholes to connect to one of
these dwarf galaxies, so maybe we should use a wormhole far away from Earth,
huh?”

“Good idea, but here is another complication; it
is not easy to find super-duty wormholes here in the local sector, that can be
connected to wormholes in satellite galaxies.”

“Wait, what? Why
can’t-”

“Because they 
can’t
,
Joe. Not every wormhole can be connected to every other one. There are different
types of wormholes, some were built for long-range connections. Most are only
capable of spanning a gap of six thousand lightyears, even if I screw with
their programming.”

“Crap. I did not know that.”

“Joe, you should use ‘I did not know that’ as your
theme song.”

“
Why
 are
there different type
s
? Wait, have we
ever been through one of these super-duper heavy-duty wormholes?” All the
wormholes we had been through looked the same to me. All we saw, of course, was
the temporary event horizon in local spacetime, we never actually saw the
wormhole mechanism itself. Skippy had told me there were multiple types of Elder
wormholes, but he hadn’t given me a lot of detail on what made them different.

“Well, twice we have been through what I call
‘heavy-duty’ wormholes, although we used for them for relatively short-range
shortcuts. The wormhole we used to get to the Roach Motel is a ‘heavy-duty’
wormhole, as you would describe it. There are different types of wormholes for
the same reason there are different types of warships in a fleet; each type has
a range of capabilities.”

“Yeah, 
but,
 the reason
not every ship is a battleship is 
mostly

because they are expensive to build, maintain and support a large crew. The
Elders did not have to consider resource constraints, did they? They could move
stars!”

“Even the Elders had to deal with limited
resources. Their capabilities were truly vast, 
but,

still limited. That is not the point, dumdum. Damn, you love to interrupt me.
The Elders constructed different types of wormholes for different purposes.
Remember I told you they once relocated an unstable blue giant star by jumping
it through a wormhole? That was a very special wormhole built just for that
one-time use, it was taken apart to prevent it from creating a rupture in
spacetime. 
That
 is why not every
wormhole has 
long-range
 capability, Joe.
Those heavy-duty wormholes are rough on local spacetime, they appear much less
frequently than other wormholes and their emergence points are far apart. They
also apparently have a limited lifespan, that is why the vast majority of them
are currently dormant. I think the Elders kept these heavy-duty wormholes
dormant most of the time, only activating them when needed. Even while dormant,

their
 presence causes disruptions in
higher dimensions of spacetime, that is how I have been able to locate them.”

Damn it, not knowing why there are different types
of wormholes fell into that huge category of ‘ways my ignorance can get me
killed’. Unfortunately, there was a 
LOT

in that category. Like, too much. The problem was, Skippy only told me stuff he
thought I needed to know, and because of my profound ignorance, I did not even
know what questions to ask. It was very frustrating.

“Wonderful. You do know which wormholes are just the
normal or heavy-duty type, and which super-duty ones can connect outside the
galaxy, right? At the end of our Renegade mission, you said something about
there being three super-duties we should check out.””

“Yes to your first question, no to the second. I
don’t know which wormholes might be able to connect beyond the galaxy, because
I have never asked the wormhole network to try that.”

“Whoa. Do you know for sure that 
any
 wormholes in this galaxy can reach
one of those dwarf galaxies, or are you guessing?”

“I’m not guessing, Joe, I- Hmm, Ok, technically I 
am
 sort of guessing. It’s a simple
matter of logic. There are Elder wormholes in satellite galaxies, so they must
have been active at some point, and they must have connected to this galaxy.
I’m not going to use the word ‘duh’-”

“Except you just did.”

“
Ugh
.
Fine. 
You
 asshole! You slap this huge
project on me, to identify potential beta sites, and when I tell you it is not
so easy as the monkey would like, you get all pouty and mad at me.”

“I do not get ‘pouty’.”

“Your lower lip is sticking out, and you are
frowning like a baby who can’t get candy.”

“Can we just agree this is super complicated?
Damn, whenever you go all Professor Nerdnik on me, my head hurts.” I had not
asked him why the dwarf galaxies were poor in heavy elements and why most of
their stars were old, because I knew he would give me a half-hour lecture about
it. And because it did not matter why a dwarf galaxy had so little carbon
compared to the Milky Way-

Except, crap, maybe it 
did
 matter. My ignorance could get me killed someday, get a lot of
people killed. With a mental groan I kept to myself, I decided learning useful
knowledge was too important, I needed to suck it up and force my slow brain to
smarten up. “Skippy, I’m going to grab a sandwich and I’ll be right back, so
you can explain about the chemical composition of dwarf galaxies, and how you
plan to find out whether any wormholes in this galaxy can connect way out
there.”

“
Really
?”
his voice dripped with sarcasm.

“For realz, homeboy. This ignorant monkey needs to
smarten up 
sometime
, might as well start
now.”

“Hoo boy, this is not going to be easy. Well, if I
can educate 
you
 about the physics of
stellar formation, maybe that will add another plaque to the wall in my
Awesomeness Hall of Fame.”

Wisely, I did not ask whether he was actually
planning to build a hall of fame for himself.

 

 

Adams was back aboard the ship, that meant she was
again leading exercise classes in the gym. Because she loved so much to make
people suffer, I was surprised that she had chosen the Marine Corps over a job
at the Department of Motor Vehicles. The first class she led was a Spin
workout, which I was excited about because all the equipment in the gym had
recently been replaced and upgraded. As part of rebuilding the ship yet again,
Skippy had moved bulkheads to make the gym larger. That was good for our
high-speed special operations troops, but the reason for expanding the ship’s
recreation facilities was we would be carrying a lot more people. The ship’s
new peacetime role of missions back and forth to a beta site, including the
initial survey work and setting up for a colony, meant the 
Dutchman
 would be supporting two or three times as many people.
Skippy had upgraded the life support capacity, mostly the water supply and
oxygen recycling. Several cargo bays had been converted to sleeping quarters,
with racks of bunks. Privacy would be at a premium, and two cargo bays had been
set aside for common areas and a second galley. I would have to appoint an
officer to deal with the civilian survey teams, because 
I
 sure as hell didn’t want to do that.

Anyway, I had been given a tour of our new gym,
but had not used the Spin bikes yet. For Adams’s first class, I arrived twenty
minutes early, to find the room already almost full. The only bikes left were
in the second row, so I picked one at random and set it up, flopping a towel
over the handlebars and a water bottle in the rack. Everyone else was warming
up, and I got started. Then I noticed something odd. All the women in the class
were on bikes in the back row. Captain Frey was behind me, so I turned around
and whispered to her. “You’re a hardcore adventure racer, Frey. I figured you
would be in the front row.”

“Sir,” she said evenly between breaths, because
she was already out of her seat, standing on the pedals. “If I was right in
front of you, what would you be doing?”

“Uh-” That confused me for 
only
 a heartbeat, then I felt my cheeks redden with a blush. She 
meant,
 I would be staring at her shapely ass. That would be
wrong and unprofessional and disrespectful, and biology didn’t care about any
of that. “Gotcha,” I mumbled and turned around, pretending to be adjusting my
bike.

Five minutes before the class started, all the
bikes were occupied, and Adams was walking around, checking that everyone knew
how to set up the new bikes. Just before she got to my row, the bulkhead in
front of us changed from projecting a view of a mountain road, to display boxes
of data. It shocked me when I saw the data being displayed.

“Gunny,” I hissed, waving her over to me. “When
you were dirtside, did you visit the Bad Ideas Hall of Fame?”

“No Sir,” she grinned. “Why?”

“You know 
exactly

what I mean.” The problem was not the new bikes, it was the display. It showed
the name and a photo of 
everyone,
 with their current 
heartrate
 and the amount of power they were
generating. Everyone in the class could see the amount of power output of
everyone else. With the class full of special operations troops, that was a
recipe for nothing but trouble. One thing I knew about operators was they were
competitive, like, super 
competitive
. Now
they could see where they ranked against their peers, in real-time. “Are you
trying to kill people?”

She looked behind her at the display. “You’re
cranking out a hundred sixty watts, Sir. That’s nothing to be ashamed of,” she said,
but the tone of her voice was that of a mother 
patting

a child on the head after striking out at 
teeball
.

“I’m just 
warming

up, Gunny,” I said through clenched teeth. “This is a 
bad
 idea,” I pushed harder and my power output went up above two
hundred. 
Crap.
 Behind me, Frey was above
two fifty. She was already warmed up, I told myself.

That is very nice, 
girly-man
, my inner self responded. My inner self is an asshole.

“Trust me, Sir,” Adams whispered as she moved
away. 
On the display
, several boxes were
showing a continuous power output above four hundred watts. One guy was
approaching five hundred. I knew that just from the gasping grunts he was
making.

Damn, the class was scheduled for an hour and it
hadn’t started yet.

Adams got the music thumping, taking us straight
into a long climb. We reached the top seven minutes later, and everyone was
gasping. My legs felt like rubber, yet I was proud of myself. My power output was
in the top quarter of the class. It was partly unfair, because while the ship
was being rebuilt, I had nothing much else to do, so I had taken as much time
as I could in the flight simulator, and practically lived in the gym when I
wasn’t pretending to fly. As a result, I was in the best condition of my life.
Ha, I thought, the old man isn’t so-

Adams interrupted. “Very good, boys and girls. I
see we have some superstars with us today.” She highlighted a handful of the
power output numbers. Those people were giving themselves imaginary high-fives.
Then she crushed egos. “This is not a competition, but we all know that is
bullshit.” She shook her head and drew laughter from the group. “Here’s what
you don’t know. The winner of this competition will have the greatest average
power output, as a percentage of body weight. Average, over the hour. That
means you show-off idiots who are pushing so hard that you bonk after thirty
minutes, are going to 
lose
.”

Man, I could almost hear the class doing math in
their heads. The guy who had been cranking out a steady four hundred watts 
immediately
 dropped below two hundred, a
sheepish look on his exhausted face. He was in trouble and he knew it, his legs
already shook like jello. Everyone was looking around, trying to guess body
weights.

Adams had not only made the class 
a competition
, 
she
had
 found a way to make it 
interesting
.

The class ended, with an optional fifteen minutes
of ab work, which of course everyone stayed for. How did I do in the
competition? Not at the bottom, thank you very much.

Hey, you want to know if I beat Captain Frey?

Oh, shut up.

“Adams, I owe you an apology,” I said as I helped
her carry a basket of sweat-soaked towels.

“Sir, you trust the awesomeness, but you don’t
trust 
me
?”

“Won’t happen again,” I assured her. “What?” She
was looking at me with amusement.

“If you weren’t my C.O., I would say you are cute
when you’re embarrassed. But that would be inappropriate.”

“The jury is instructed to disregard that remark,”
I winked.

“Are you coming to my strength class this
afternoon?”

“Hold on,” I dug my 
zPhone
 out of a pocket. “I want you to say that again, while I
record the video.”

“Why?” She asked, giving me a stare reserved for
creepy weirdos.

“Because, if anyone ever thinks you 
like
 me, I will show them this evidence
to prove you are trying to kill me.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER SEVEN

 

Only Skippy and I knew the truth, that he had no
idea if we could get a super-duty wormhole to connect outside the galaxy. I
worried about that and kept my mouth shut, as we jumped toward our first
objective: a Kristang data relay station. Because the United Nations 
insisted
 we be extra super-duper careful, we kept the 
Flying Dutchman
 four 
lighthours
 away from the station, and Skippy
pinged it for info. The station responded that it was lonely, as no ships had
stopped there within the past month. The nearby star system was solidly
controlled by the Black Tree clan and well defended, so it was relatively
unaffected by the civil war that was raging across Kristang society. During the
first year of the civil war, that star system had a lot of traffic going in and
out; warriors going off to fight, and damaged ships limping back for repairs.
The station reported 
sadly
 that the 
recent
 combined offensive by the Thuranin and
Bosphuraq had reduced the transport capacity available to the Kristang, and the
next star carrier to visit was not scheduled for another three weeks.

With that assurance, the Commissioners authorized
me to jump the 
Dutchman
 within two 
lightminutes
 of the station, and Skippy
ransacked its database. Not surprisingly, it had no info about whether there
were any more Kristang starships hidden near Earth, it did not even know
anything about the 
Ice-Cold Dagger to the
Heart
. Skippy loaded a virus into the station, a file that would be carried
to other stations and nearby planets, 
where it
would quietly search for hints of secret operations involving Earth
. If the
virus found any information we wanted, it would send a message back out, to
propogate across the network of relay stations. Personally, he told me that the

Dagger
 had very likely been alone.
Earth was just not important enough for more than one clan to devote the
resources to have a secret ship transported all the way there.

Really, if the UN was serious about investigating
whether there were more ships stuffed full of frozen lizards near Earth, we
needed to hit Thuranin databases for info. The 
Thuranin

would certainly know how many ships they had transported to Earth, and we would
not have to rely on a virus digging into the secret records of every Kristang
major clan and subclan. Digging into Thuranin records would be easy one-stop
shopping for all our intel needs, but the UN considered screwing around with
the Thuranin too risky, so we did it the hard way. No, the dumb way.

Anyway, I had my orders, I carried them out to the
best of my ability, and I kept my mouth shut. 

Continuing to follow orders, the ship next flew along
the UN-approved course to the super-duty wormhole Skippy had selected, with the
Stooges suspiciously watching every move I made. Reed made sure our pilots
stuck to the approved course as much as we could, and we used isolated but
existing wormhole connections to get there. This mission would not involve any
screwing with Elder wormholes, other than making one or maybe a small group of
them connect beyond the galaxy.

“Well, gosh darn it,” Skippy announced, after
making us 
wait for
 a whole freakin’ day
at the site of the dormant super-duty wormhole.

“Gosh darn it?” Desai inquired from the command
chair. She was the duty officer, I had just come onto the bridge after
breakfast, and was eating the last couple bites of a bagel. “Mister Skippy,”
she looked back over her shoulder at me, and I held my hands up. This was her 
show,
 I wasn’t going to interfere. To demonstrate my intent,
I walked over into the CIC. “What is the problem?” She asked.

“Gosh 
darn

it,” Skippy said in a nervous tone. “Wouldn’t you know it? There is an issue
with bringing this wormhole back online. Wow. There is 
no way
 I could have foreseen this. Right, Joe? Heh, heh,” he added.

Oh crap, I said to myself. Desai’s eyes were
shooting daggers at me. She was not buying that lying little beer can’s line of
bullshit. And she figured whatever he was lying about, it involved me.

Which was true.

In my defense, I had not informed Desai about Skippy’s deception because I
didn’t want her implicated in our scheme. No, in 
Skippy’s
 scheme. I was only guilty after the fact. Luckily for me,
the Commissioner in the CIC at the time was Hans Chotek, which is 
probably
 why Skippy had chosen that moment to
announce the discovery that he totally could not have foreseen of course not.

The look I got from Chotek was not disappointment
and anger like Desai was giving me, it was- Amusement? Yeah, that’s it. He was
amused, like he expected something like this, and was waiting to see what kind
of game I was playing.

In a way, that told me a lot about how our
relationship had grown since we first were forced to work together. He had been
expecting me to conceal the truth about something, and he trusted my judgment
that it wasn’t anything that could endanger the mission.

Maybe I needed to stop keeping him and Desai in
the dark.

“Well, gosh, you did warn us this might not be
easy, Skippy,” I replied without looking at anyone in the bridge or CIC. Lying
wasn’t my best skillset. “What is the problem?”

“Well, 
duh
,
I told you, it’s-” He must have realized just then that I wasn’t supposed to
know about the problem before now. “It’s just the usual, the Universe screwing
with us, Joe,” he finished with a decently-believable sigh. “I’m sorry, this
wormhole is not usable.”

That was something I did 
not
 already know. I walked into the bridge 
compartment
  
in
 a few steps, and stood beside the
command chair. “Define ‘usable’, please.”

“I can’t make it work. No amount of screwing with
this stupid thing will get it to connect beyond more than eight thousand
lightyears,” he explained with disgust. “What a piece of crap.”

“Ok,” I carefully considered what to say next,
assuming my words might be in the official transcript of a UN inquiry someday.
“So, should we just go to the next super-duty wormhole on the list? You have
told us about wormholes that connect farther than eight thousand lightyears.”

“Yes,” he began slowly, growing irritated at me.
“Those are long-range wormholes that have remained actively connected, or they become
connected after a shift, because the network makes them connect. Here, I am
dealing with a dormant wormhole, and trying to make it do something the network
isn’t programmed for.”

“Got it. So, this is the wrong wormhole, or the 
wrong
 type of wormhole?”

“No. You don’t understand. This wormhole 
is
 capable of connecting far beyond
eight thousand lightyears. The problem is, 
I

can’t get it to do that.”

He sounded not only genuinely upset, but also
seriously upset. Whatever the issue was, he had not expected it. “To be clear, this
wormhole won’t accept your instructions?” I asked. “Or is it a-”

“It’s not a matter of my 
authority
, Joe,” he snapped at me. “The problem is of course not with
my 
incredible
 level of 
magnificence,

it is with the lame-ass wormhole controller module we have. 
Apparently

there are not only different types of wormholes, 
there are
 different levels of controller modules. The one we have
is not capable of generating the level of power required to establish a
connection farther than eight thousand lightyears.”

“Whoa,” I looked at Desai, so hopefully she
understood that at least this part was all news to me. “What do you mean, the
controller lacks the power? I thought our beanstalk just sent a message through
higher spacetime or something like that.”

“It does, Joe,” he said, and everyone could hear
his unspoken ‘duh’ directed at me. “The controller has to communicate with the
wormholes on 
both ends
 in order to
connect them.”

“Oh, wow,” I gasped. “I never thought of that.
Holy shit! You mean one of these controller things has to reach across over a 
hundred thousand 
lightyears, to contact
a wormhole in a satellite galaxy?”

“Well, yes, 
duh
.
How else did you think it works? I thought I explained that to you already.”

“I would have remembered a little detail like
that, Skippy. Can’t your incredible magnificence just, uh, provide the power or
reach or whatever this thing needs?”

“It’s not just the amount of 
power
, Joe,” he explained the way adults speak to children on
Sesame Street. “I have the power, in fact I have too much power. I would blow
up the controller module we have, if I tried to feed that level of power into
it. The problem is that our controller doesn’t, ugh, how do I explain this to
monkeys? It is like the controller we have is a torque wrench with a six-inch
handle, and we need one with a handle that is three feet long. Before you ask,
no, we can’t just slip a pipe over the handle to make it longer. Also before
you ask, the other controller, that we have parked near the Gateway wormhole,
is also not capable of getting this 
stupid
-duty
wormhole to connect beyond the galaxy.”

“We can’t touch that backup controller anyway, we
need it to make Gateway act crazy, at the proper time that matches the bullshit
cover story we are selling to the Maxolhx. All right, what can we do?” Maybe, I
realized, that was that wrong question. “
Is

there anything we can do to fix this?”

“I think so. I am not one hundred percent certain,
but now that I know there are different types of wormhole controllers, I am
making sense of a bit of data I collected a while ago.”

“So, what do we do next?”

“Well, heh heh-”

Desai said it before I could. “Oh 
shit
.”

 

 

We had not yet gone through a wormhole beyond the
galaxy, and already I 
was having
 to
referee arguments about who would be in the first away team to survey a
potential beta site. The science team included egos to match their scientific
and academic accomplishments, so it was no surprise to me that there would be
competition, but it still annoyed me. I reminded the team that before we could
discuss 
who
 was going on the away
missions, we had to figure out 
where

we needed to go. And before 
that
, we
had to learn 
what
 thing we had to get,
to connect a super-duty wormhole all the way out to a dwarf galaxy.

It was actually a relief to me when Skippy
announced that we had to go on another wild-goose chase, before we could look
at potential beta sites. When he told me there were different types of wormhole
controller modules, I assumed we needed some kind of extra-powerful controller.
This special controller would be gold-plated, or have a label like ‘Turbo’ or
some other marketing gimmick like that.

I was wrong about that.

“Joe,” Skippy told me, “I have no freakin’ clue
what a super controller looks like, or where to get one. A scavenger hunt would
be a waste of time anyway. Because super-duty wormholes are rare, I suspect
their controllers are equally rare.”

“Ok, but the network must know what the damned
thing looks like, right?” I asked, feeling like I should not have to explain
that to a being as intelligent as he claimed to be. “Ask the network.”

He was equally frustrated with me. “Ugh. You do
not understand. The network did not specifically tell me that I need a super
controller. All I know is that, when I tried to make our controller wake the
thing up, the network gave me a warning like ‘Insufficient power to establish
connection’. Therefore I concluded that, 
duh
,
I need a more powerful device.”

“Which brings us back to needing to know what the
stupid thing looks like, before we can go racing around the galaxy to find
one!”

“That would be a waste of time, Joe. 
Like
 I said, super controllers must be rare.
That is good, actually.”

“Uh, 
what

is good, Skippy?”

His voice changed to a terrible Germanic accent.
“What is 
good
?
 
To crush
your enemies, see them driven before you, and to hear the lamentation of their
women!”

“Uh,” I
shot a guilty look at Chotek, who was startled by what Skippy had said. “I am
not Conan the Barbarian, so-”

“You got that right,” Skippy muttered. “You are
more like Conan the 
Librarian
.”

There were snickers of laughter around the CIC.
“Could you stick to the subject, please? You just told us that the thing we
need to get is impossible to find. How is a 
good

thing?”

“Because, 
duuuuuh
, if in the future the Maxolhx or
Rindhalu want to activate a super-duty wormhole to go wipe out the beta site,
they won’t be able to. 
DUH
!”

“Shit. Ok, that ‘duh’ is on me. Good thinking.” My
timing sucked, because by then the Three Stooges had joined Chotek in the CIC,
and were engaged in a quiet but furious conversation while they were glaring at
me. Chotek 
was being
 patient and calm and
reasonable, and I could tell he really wanted to snap their necks. It was good
seeing him having to deal with the wrath of bureaucrats.

“You are welcome,” Skippy replied, his voice
dripping with sarcasm. “How about you stop wasting my time with stupid
questions, and I will explain what we need to do next?”

Fortunately, I had seen the wisdom in shutting up,
so I did. 

“It is simple, Joe. I think we don’t need to find
a different type of wormhole 
controller,
 we just need
to find a sort of power booster for the controller we have. Um, you should
think of it as a range extender for a WiFi signal.”

“Great,” I groaned. “I suppose we will have to go
some scary place like the Roach Motel to get an Elder range extender?”

“Nope. In fact, I have good news for you: we do
not need an 
Elder
 device at all. The
technology of a device that can feed power into higher dimensions is relatively
crude. Even the Rindhalu possess such technology. We should be able to use one
of their devices.”

Chotek was giving me a warning look. He did not
like the idea of stealing from the Rindhalu, any more than he liked the notion
of flying back to the Roach Motel.

“Oh, 
yeah
,”
I made sure Skippy could not mistake the sarcasm in my voice. “That is 
much
 better. All we have to do it break
into a secure Rindhalu vault or something?”

“Again, 
noooooo
,”
he used sarcasm right back at me. “I happen to know of a place, multiple
places, where Rindhalu technology should be lying around just waiting to be
picked up. All we have to do is fly to one of the Dead Worlds.”

“One of the 
Dead

Worlds? Why does that not sound like a swinging good time?”

“Probably because you’re not one of the cool kids,
Joe. Think of this as The Rave 
At
 The End Of The Universe.”

“That actually does not help.”

“
Like
 I
said,” he sniffed. “Not one of the cool kids.”

 

The idea of going to a dead world did not appeal
to me at all. The idea didn’t thrill the Stooges either, so much that they had
been on the verge of ordering us back to Earth for consultations, before Chotek
talked some sense into them. Their charter, the Stooges had insisted, did not
include taking the ship into hazardous situations. The mission was supposed to
be about safety for humanity, not flying around on reckless adventures.

Chotek had replied, with the quiet and
well-reasoned logic of an experienced diplomat, that their charter from the
United Nations was to locate a beta site. The UN wanted a secure refuge for
humanity, and the mission orders had given the four Commissioners broad
authority to do whatever was needed to locate a beta site. Going back to Earth
with their tails between their legs would only mean the UN would inevitably
send the ship back out, with a group of Commissioners who were capable of 
getting the job done
 rather than
covering their asses.

Since the Stooges knew he was right, they reluctantly
voted unanimously to authorize me to plan a mission to one of the Dead Worlds,
to locate and acquire the technology we needed. I was authorized 
only
 to make plans, with the
Commissioners reserving the decision whether to proceed or not. Our three new
UN bureaucrats did not know what Hans Chotek had learned from experience; that
projects even in the planning stage gathered momentum, and at some 
point
 became very difficult to stop.

I was Ok with the notion of 
the Stooges
 learning a painful lesson.

 

Most of the crew was hesitant about going to as
place described as a ‘Dead World’. Except for Smythe, who of course relished
the challenge. And the rest of his STAR team. And our pilots, who were
furiously playing rock-paper-scissors for the opportunity to fly any potential
away missions. By the way, apparently the British call the game paper-scissors-
stone
. Some people who had lost the
first round, suggested moving on to the more complicated
rock-paper-scissors-lizard-Spock version of the game, but they were quickly
shouted down.

Ok, so, really, the only crew members who very
much did not like the possibility of a hazardous mission were 
me and Reed,
 because we would be 
stuck
 aboard the ship while the others had fun.
I argued that I should go with the away teams, while Desai remained aboard the
ship to, as I said it, ‘gain valuable experience in command’. That argument was
dismissed
. By
 her.

The Commissioners, including Chotek, were also not
thrilled about a potentially dangerous glitch in their dream of a simple and
easy mission. The four of them, especially Chotek, should have known that
nothing is ever simple or easy for the Merry Band of Pirates.

 

First, I should explain that the Dead Worlds are
planets formerly inhabited by the Rindhalu and Maxolhx, before the rotten
kitties launched a sneak attack against the 
spiders

way back when. The 
Maxolhx
 struck hard
against critical spider facilities in the first wave, then the spiders hit
back. Because both sides were using Elder weapons, the devastation to the
impacted worlds was massive.

Then, Sentinels detected that someone was using
Elder weapons, and woke from their slumber to crush both sides. The majority of
the Dead Worlds were rendered uninhabitable by Sentinels, rather than the two
original combatants. In some cases, all the Sentinels did was make the already-radioactive
rubble bounce around, but they stuck to their programming. The Sentinels were relentlessly
thorough about hunting down and punishing the perpetrators on both sides, who
had dared to use and misuse Elder technology.

“These Dead Worlds,” I asked. “Can you give us
more info about them?”

“Certainly, Joe,” Skippy answered in a cheery
fashion. “A complete package of data about the Dead Worlds is available, for
three easy payments of only 
nineteen-ninety-five
.”

“
What
?”

“Hey, a brother has got to make a living here.
I’ll throw in a set of steak knives.”

“Thank you, no.”

“You sure? These top-quality knives can slice
through a hiking boot.”

“Ah, if the steak I’m eating needs a knife like
that, maybe I try something else.”

“Probably a good idea,” he conceded.

“How about I make one easy payment of 
zero
, and I let you sing an extra song
on the next karaoke night?”

“Deal!” He shouted before I could come to my
senses. “What do you want to know about the Dead Worlds?”

“Let’s start with 
where
 are they?”

He showed a star chart, on the main displays in
the bridge and CIC. “Because the Maxolhx concentrated their initial attack on
the critical inner worlds of the Rindhalu, and then the spiders retaliated
against the closest Maxolhx star systems, the Dead Worlds are in a relatively
compact area of the Norma Arm. You can see on the chart that-”

“Wait. The, the ‘
Norma
’ Arm?” I chuckled, assuming he was bullshitting me. “Is that
next to the ‘Jethro’ Arm?”

“No,” he snapped after the laughter in the CIC
died down. “You can look it up on Wikipedia if you like. The Norma Arm is also
called the Cygnus Arm. Hey, 
I 
didn’t
name the stupid thing, a bunch of monkeys did.”

“Wow, sorry,” I made a slashing motion across my
throat to dampen the remaining laughter. Displaying my ignorance did not make
me look good in front of the Stooges. By the time we 
were having
 the tactical discussion of which Dead World to
investigate, the Stooges had retreated to their extra-large cabins, to write
reports for the purpose of covering their asses by blaming any future trouble
on 
me and Chotek
. They could be writing
naughty limericks about me for all I cared, as long as they left 
the crew and me
 alone to do our freakin’ jobs. Studying
the chart before I opened my big stupid mouth again, I was surprised to see the
Dead Worlds zone was a tiny dot, about a quarter of the way around the galaxy’s
disc from Earth, and much closer to the center. “That’s it?”

“Joe, the star chart is currently showing most of
the Milky Way galaxy, 
you
 dumdum. Watch this and be
amazed.” He zoomed the view in, so it showed a span of about three thousand
lightyears, according to the helpful little sign at the bottom.

The star systems of the Dead Worlds were
highlighted in red, and there were a 
lot

of them. There was an ominous swath of red, in an arc that cut across the
spiral arm that really was apparently named ‘Norma’. “Damn. That is a 
lot 
of dead star systems. Since we’re
going to be looking for Rindhalu technology, can you highlight their Dead
Worlds?”

I had to guess, but it looked like more than half
of the dead systems now glowed yellow rather than red. “Now I will highlight in
blue the former Rindhalu worlds that are now in Maxolhx territory,” he
announced.

“Ok,” I looked at Desai, and she was just as
bewildered as I was. “Why are you doing that?”

“Because,” he explained. “We probably need to land
on a former Rindhalu Dead World, and I would prefer not to sneak into a star
system that is currently monitored by the spiders. Not only do you monkeys not
need to make any more enemies than you already have, but 
also

I do not wish to attempt to subvert a Rindhalu sensor network. Sneaking us
through Maxolhx sensors is going to be difficult enough.”

“Oh, got it. Hell, Skippy, do we even want to try doing
that? I remember how tough it was to sneak into Detroit to raid that pixie
factory.”

“Trust me, Joe.” He snorted. “This is going to be
a piece of cake, compared to Detroit.”

 

 

“This is your idea of 
cake
, Skippy?” I asked after I finished reading one of the books I
had brought along, and couldn’t think of anything else to do. Being stuck
aboard our Panther dropship, in empty space on the outskirts of a Dead World
star system, resulted in my having nothing useful to do.

“Yes, why?” he asked innocently.

“If you are thinking of baking something for my
birthday, don’t.”

“Oh, shut up. What are you whining about?”

“I am bored out of my freakin’ skull, that is
what.”

From the cockpit, Reed raised her hand. “Add me to
that list, Sir.”

“See? Even ‘Fireball’ Reed is sick of this.”

Our other pilot, Wu, stifled a yawn. “I second
that, Sir. This kinda sucks so far.”

“Ugh. Joe, they are bored 
with
 being stuck here with 
you
,
not with this glorious and fascinating mission. We have successfully snuck into
the edge of a Dead World star system, and are currently engaged in a
clandestine operation to subvert a senior-species monitoring network. Around us
are the burned and shattered remnants of a once-great civilization. How can you
be 
bored
?”

“Gosh, well, let me think,” I mocked him. “First,
I have been stuck in this Panther for six freakin’ days, with absolutely
nothing to do. At least Reed and Wu occasionally get to move the Panther a 
couple
 meters in one direction or another-”

“That really does not help much, Sir,” Reed
groaned.

“As for the remnants of a dead civilization,” I
rolled my eyes, “all I’ve seen is a dark smudge. It could be dust on the
freakin’ camera lens, for all I know.”

“Well, 
excuuuuse
 me,” Skippy expressed his disgust.
“That smudge is all we can get with passive sensors from here. If you like, I
could deploy an active sensor sweep, or we could fly over there so little Joey
can get a better view.”

“How about we don’t do any stupid shit like that?”

“Then what 
do

you want?”

“I want you to do the awesome thing we came out
here for you to do.”

“I’m 
trying
,
knucklehead.”

“Try harder,” I suggested.

“And faster,” Reed added.

“Just try 
better
,”
was Wu’s helpful contribution.

“Sure! Fine! I’m an idiot!” Skippy exploded. He
was as frustrated as the three of us were. “You monkeys tell me what to do, and
I’ll do it.”

 

The problem was, we monkeys had no suggestions for
him. We were in the Kuiper Belt of a star system we called Slingshot, waiting
for Skippy to hack into the Maxolhx sensor network that surrounded the star.
The 
Flying Dutchman
 had jumped in 
way
 outside the system, with our jump signature
tuned to look like a Maxolhx ship. Reed, Wu and I flew toward the star in the
Panther with Skippy, and parked it in the exact spot he said we needed to be.
Exact, like, within three centimeters of an imaginary line Skippy thought was
the location of a 
tightbeam
 transmission 
path
 from one of the sensor satellites way out
on the dark, icy edge of the system, and a network node on a space station in
orbit only a 
couple of
 million miles from
the star. I say he 
thought
 that was
the location, because he was guessing at the location of the satellite and the
space station. With all the satellites and the space stations were wrapped in
sophisticated stealth fields, Skippy really was guessing that they even
existed.

So, we were trying to put our Panther exactly
along an imaginary line, between two objects that might not exist. We also had
to be there at the proper time, 
because

the satellites and space stations communicated via burst transmissions that
lasted no more than a few nanoseconds. As far as we knew, the satellite we
targeted had sent its message inward a second before our Panther moved into position,
and we could be waiting there in empty space for another month to intercept
another signal.

That was not going to happen, because despite all
three of us being on our best behavior, Reed, Wu and I were starting to
irritate each other. The other reason it wasn’t going to happen is I only had
enough peanut butter and Fluff for seven more lunches. I 
should
 have had sufficient Fluff supply for twelve days, but
someone had been stealing spoonfuls of delicious Fluff nutrition, despite both
of our pilots claiming they couldn’t stand it. Based on the streak of sticky
white Fluff in Reed’s hair, I had a prime suspect.

 

After our minor blow-up, Skippy sulked for a 
couple
 hours, Reed took a nap and Wu and I
ignored each other. No, that is not a nice way to say that. Wu and I gave each
other space. She chilled in a couch near the front of the cabin, while I sat in
the copilot seat and ran a flight training program as quietly as possible.

“Ooh! Ooh!” Skippy’s booming voice scared the hell
out of all three of us. “Bingo!”

“We picked up a transmission?” I asked 
eagerly
 as I killed the flight simulator
program, and got out of the seat to make room for Reed, while Wu slid into the
pilot couch.

“Yes! Well, shmaybe.”

“Maybe?” I looked over Wu’s shoulder to the pilot
displays, they weren’t showing anything useful. “What does that mean?”

“I picked up something that might be a
transmission. Our sensors detected several atoms fluorescing, close to us.”

“Wow. That is incredible, Skippy.”

“Well,” he chuckled
with false modesty. “It really was nothing, I just-”

“I know it’s nothing, you little shithead,” I
exploded at him. “Six days, and all we have to show for it is a 
couple of
 
atoms

doing some nerdy thing?! You can’t-”

“Sir,” Reed interrupted gently. “This could be the
break we’ve been waiting for. Skippy, are you able to establish a vector?”

“Yes,” he sniffed. “We are very close to my
original guesstimate, and I will tell you, 
after

Joe apologizes for being such a 
poopyhead
.”

Instead of opening my big stupid mouth, I decided
to be smart. “Reed, why do we care about a couple of sparkly atoms?”

She pointed to the display in front of her.
“Because they are in a precise 
line
,
Sir. We have seven, no, eight points of data. The sensor satellite sent a burst
transmission to the control station. Now we know where both of them are.”

“Oh. Sorry, Skippy, I am a big 
poopyhead
.”

“Because?” He asked expectantly.

“Because I did not trust the awesomeness.”

“Egg-
zactly
!” He snickered with satisfaction.
“Will you ever learn, Joe?”

“Apparently not. I don’t know if drawing a
freakin’ line across eight points makes you a genius, Skippy.”

“Sir,” Wu tapped her console to draw my attention.
“It 
was
 pretty awesome. Skippy parked
us within 
twelve meters
 of a direct
line between two objects wrapped in Maxolhx stealth fields. Our sensors can’t
actually detect either object, he had to predict where they would be.”

“Oh. How did you do that, Skippy?” Although I was mildly

curious about
 how he had done it, and I
figured that knowledge might be useful in the future, mostly I asked the
question so he could boast about his accomplishment. Boosting his massive ego
was always a good idea.

“Well, it should be obvious, Joe. But since you
are an ignorant monkey, I will explain. Stealth fields bend photons around an
object, so they do not reflect off the object. They can be very effective at
hiding objects like ships, in the vacuum of space. Aircraft can also employ
stealth, although an aircraft disturbs the air it is flying through, so stealth
there is less effective,” he said in his droning professor voice. Inwardly, I
rolled my eyes at the prospect of him going on and on about nerdy details, but
he was eager to get going, so he cut his lecture short. “However, Joe, most
objects have mass, and that mass distorts 
spacetime

around them. The sensor satellites, although they each only have a mass of thirty
kilograms, create a tiny gravity well around them that alters the orbit of dust
in the Kuiper Belt.”

“So, you predicted the location of a 
stealthed
 satellite, based on how 
dust
 was drifting near it?”

“Yes. I noticed that the trajectory of dust
particles, in a very local area, was a few nanometers different from what it
should be, based on the visible objects in the vicinity. Therefore, I concluded
there must be an invisible mass creating a tiny gravity well in the area.”

“Ok,” I conceded, “that does sound reasonably
awesome. You had to use your math super-powers to do that?”

“It is even more awesome than that, Sir,” Wu was
practically bubbling with enthusiasm. “The Panther’s sensors aren’t actually
sensitive enough to detect dust particles moving a few nanometers, unless we’re
right on top of them. 
Skippy had to compare what
our sensors were seeing, to what they 
should

be seeing, if they were more capable.
 The really awesome part is, he predicted
the location of this one particular satellite, while we were more than a
million kilometers away.”

“Well, gosh,” Skippy chuckled with false modesty.
“I am blushing. Awesomeness is just what I do, you know?”

“We truly appreciate it,” I put as much sincerity
as possible into my words, while trying not to gag. “What’s next?”

“What’s next is,” Reed answered. “We need to move
the Panther to intercept the line between the satellite and control station.
So, please strap in, Sir.”

“We have to stay strapped in, right?” I asked as I
eased my backside into a couch and the straps automatically wrapped around me.
“We’ll need to use thrusters for station-keeping, or we will drift off the
line.”

“Very good, Joe,” Skippy sounded genuinely pleased
with me. “However, you will not need to secure yourself, for the Panther can
keep station with movements so gentle, you will never notice them. Also, we
will not need to remain here for very long. The satellite will expect to
receive an acknowledgment of its message within fourteen hours. When the
control station does send a reply, instead of our stealth field bending the
photons of that message around us as if we weren’t here, I will retune the
field 
to completely absorb the energy
. That
way, the satellite will never receive the actual message. After I crack the
encryption, I will use the authorization codes to send a virus to the
satellite, one that will reprogram it to ignore our presence in this star
system. That update will propagate from one satellite to the next within three
days. The virus will also affect the operation of the control stations. Those
stations might detect our presence independently of the satellites, but the
stations will believe we are authorized to be here, and will not record our
actions.”

That sounded suspiciously optimistic to me. “Are
you sure about that, Skippy? You told us we couldn’t slip through the sensor
network around Detroit.”

“
Yes
 I am sure, dumdum. Ugh. I explained this already.
Detroit was an ultra-secure facility, because the Maxolhx 
are
 worried about the Rindhalu obtaining the
secrets of their pixie technology. There is no reason for the Rindhalu to come
here, so the Maxolhx only need to be concerned with lesser species like the
Thuranin, attempting to gain access to Rindhalu technology. There were such
infiltration attempts many years ago, that the Maxolhx detected. The resulting
punishment was harsh enough that no one has tried to approach one of the Dead
Worlds in the past eighty thousand years. Because of that, the Maxolhx have
become complacent, and allowed the sensor network here 
to gradually fade in priority for maintenance and updates
. It is
now obsolete, although still able to keep away the riff-raff.”

“Yeah,” I had to laugh. “Except for riff-raff like
a barrel full of filthy pirate monkeys. Ok, so, worst case is we are stuck here
for another three days?”

“
Best

case is three days, Joe,” Skippy warned me. “We can’t risk having the 
Dutchman
 jump in to retrieve us, until I
am certain that the network here has been subverted.”

“Oh, joy.” After the 
Dutchman
 picked us up, we could begin the dangerous part of the
mission. “How about we use the next three days productively, and I review the
progress you’ve made on your operas?”

“
Really
?”
He gasped. “You really want to do that?”

The truth was, I wanted to listen to his horrible
opera about as much as I wanted to remove all my teeth with a rusty
screwdriver. But, the next three days were going to be insufferably dull
anyway, and I figured it was best to embrace the suck and get it over with. I
would take a bullet for the team, so the crew did not have to listen to him
warbling scraps of opera and pestering them 
to praise
him endlessly
.

 

It was not three days and fourteen hours before we
sent a message to the 
Flying Dutchman

to 
retrieve
 us. That would have been a
mere eighty-six hours. Instead, it took 
one
hundred and four
 freakin’ hours, before Skippy received messages from every
single one of the control stations, acknowledging that they would not be
recording our presence. Damn, the distances in space are so vast, and light
travels 
so
 freakin’ slowly, that
everything takes way too long. The secret to my survival was a lot of
day-dreaming, letting my mind wander while Skippy played one version after
another of his operas. That’s right, he was working on more than one project. The
Homefront opera, and a Broadway musical about penguins. Please, don’t ask.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER EIGHT

 

Another secret to surviving those interminable
hours was me randomly critiquing his operas, asking him ‘what about this’ or
‘what about that’? I did not actually care or have an opinion, and he was
always insulted when I made a comment. Fortunately for me, his massive ego was
so fragile that he always worried that maybe I was right, and he went away for
hours to obsessively work on refining the music. If you could call it ‘music’.

Anyway, mercifully the 
Dutchman
 appeared in a burst of gamma rays, and we were aboard
within half an hour.

 

 

The next part should have been relatively simple.
Somewhat dangerous and crazy, but simple, compared to our previous challenge of
hacking into an invisible senior-species sensor network. We should have
immediately jumped to the Dead World we were calling ‘Slingshot’, to get the
mission over with as quickly as possible, before a random Maxolhx ship jumped
in to spoil the party. 
But,
 the Stooges wanted to
consider the matter, and delay and argue and wring their hands about things
they couldn’t control. You would think that, since we had covered the topic
exhaustively during the flight to the Slingshot system, there would be nothing
left to argue about. You would be wrong about that. Bureaucrats can always find
a reason 
not
 to make a decision. Even
Chotek, who had grown a spine during his service with the Merry Band of
Pirates, was unsure about what to do. Skippy remotely hacking into a sensor
network had been a risk, on a level the Commissioners were uncomfortable with
but ultimately approved. The next step was a huge increase in risk; taking the 
Flying Dutchman
 into a burned-out star
system that had once been home to the most powerful beings currently alive in
the galaxy. The Commissioners were concerned that the Rindhalu might not have
completely abandoned the world, that Skippy’s hacking effort had not fooled the
Maxolhx sensor network, and that a starship from either species might randomly
jump in to spoil the party.

Oh, and they were concerned that us messing around
on a Dead World might attract the attention of the Sentinels, who had been
mostly responsible for making that world become dead, and were almost certainly
hanging around somewhere nearby.

I also was worried about that last one.

Finally, at the suggestion of Chang, I declared
that we either needed to proceed with the mission 
now
, or return to Earth to report the matter to the UN. The problem
with the second option was that Slingshot was the softest target where we might
find the WiFi range extender dingus Skippy needed to open a super-duty
wormhole, and Skippy’s virus would be erased during the sensor network’s next
scheduled update in seventeen days. Skippy warned that cracking the network
would be more difficult a second time, for the very good reason that the
Maxolhx network was not stupid, and would take steps to protect itself from a
future virus.

When I issued my declaration, I set a deadline for
the Commissioners to make a decision one way or another, within two hours. They
protested that I was setting a deadline that was too short, but as they had
been arguing uselessly for two days, I was not giving them any more time to
delay. It was a simple choice: either we proceed with a mission they had
already approved in concept, or we go back to Earth, and quite possibly lose
the ability to explore potential beta site candidates beyond the galaxy.

I received a very grudging approval, three minutes
before my two-hour deadline expired. The ship jumped within sixteen seconds of
the Stooges telling me to proceed.

 

 

The view on the main bridge display changed from a
typical generic starfield with a dim dot representing the local sun, to the
bright disc of a rocky planet. By ‘rocky’ I mean this planet was not a ball of
gas like Jupiter, it had a solid surface under 
a
thin layer
 of atmosphere. That was the planet we had nicknamed
‘Slingshot’. The place had a legit name back when millions of Rindhalu lived
there, but even the spiders no longer used that name. I suppose it was painful
for them to refer to that now-desolate ball of ice and rock by the name it had,
back when it was a lush world teeming with life.

We chose the name ‘Slingshot’ because of that
unfortunate world’s current orbit. Instead of being nicely circular, the low
point of its orbit was only two million miles farther from that star than
Mercury was to our Sun. After racing past the star, it coasted outward farther
than the orbit of Jupiter, and did it all over again. The surface of Slingshot
alternately froze solid, melted as it arced inward, and briefly baked as it
came too close to the star. The close approach to the star would have stripped
away much of the planet’s atmosphere, except the star itself had been badly
damaged in the conflict. Originally a yellow dwarf like our Sun, Slingshot’s
star had a significant portion of its own mass blown out into space, so now it
was smaller and cooler than it should have been.

The surface of Slingshot had been bombarded from
space in the first wave of the Maxolhx attack, but the real devastation was
caused by the Sentinels. They had disrupted the star, causing it to swallow the
innermost planet, and creating a focused gravity wave that tore the system’s
largest gas giant in half. The edges of the passing gravity wave also flipped
Slingshot like a wobbling top, increasing the tilt of its axis to an extreme
twenty-nine degrees.

When Skippy told me what the Sentinels had done, I
thought they had directly thrown Slingshot out of its original orbit, similar
to what happened to the planet we called Newark. He patiently explained I was
wrong about that. Loss of the innermost planet, and having the gas giant turned
into a sort of gassy asteroid belt, had disrupted the delicate balance of the
star system. Stable orbits were thrown in wild directions, as the new
configuration of gravity wells struggled to find balance against each other.
The result was Slingshot being ejected into a highly elliptical orbit where it
alternately froze, thawed, baked and froze again. Skippy estimated that world
would ultimately settle into a circular pattern beyond the Goldilocks Zone,
where it would freeze over permanently. There was also a seventeen percent
chance it would collide with the remnants of the gas giant planet’s core, and
be completely torn apart. He would have been happy to study the matter in
depth, but I 
halted
 him before he could
geek out. We needed him for the next part of the mission.

 

 

"Skippy," I asked as I stepped into the
bridge compartment. “I want to know-”

“What to get your
shower for Valentine’s Day? That is sweet, Joe, but-”

People in the CIC were choking from trying not to
laugh. “That’s not what I meant, you 
ass
.
Why do you-”

“Oh. Well, heh heh, 
this
 is embarrassing. You didn’t see the note?”

“What,” I stole a glance to Desai in the command
chair, she held up her hands in 
an ‘
I
have no idea’ gesture. “What note, Skippy?”

“Uh oh. Sorry. It was next to the mirror in your
bathroom. Your shower is breaking up with you, Joe. It left a ‘Dear John’
letter on the-”

“That is 
not
 fun-”

“It certainly is no laughing matter, Joe. I did
tell your shower that filing for a restraining order is premature at this
stage, but I can see why-”

“Can we get back to my question?” I asked as I stared
at my boots to avoiding meeting people’s eyes. In front of me, Reed and another
pilot were making their best effort not to laugh, but Reed had a distinctive
snort when she found something funny.

“Yes,” Skippy agreed. “I can certainly understand
why you wish to avoid 
that
 subject.”

“Do we have a candidate site for landing?”

“We do, Joe,” Skippy replied with excitement.
“Check it out 
on the display
.”

“Uh,” I stepped forward and squinted at the image.
“What am I looking at?”

It looked like something I was familiar with from
living in Maine. A lot of frozen mud. The problem with trying to recover
technology from Slingshot was that, most of that world’s year, it was covered
in thick glaciers. As it swung close to the star, the glaciers melted with
increasing ferocity, sending torrents of water to flush the top layer of soil
down glacier-melt rivers and ultimately into the oceans. Slingshot had been
freezing and thawing for so long, most traces of cities or technology had
literally been flushed into the depths of the oceans, where it was too deep for
us to explore in a dropship. I already had one experience using a 
dropship
 as a submarine, which is why I had
been jokingly awarded a Submarine Warfare Officer insignia when we returned to
Earth from our long stay on Gingerbread.

What we were looking for, and Skippy thought he
had found, were remnants of civilization in the region close to the planet’s equator,
that had slowly carried along by advancing glaciers and were now exposed. Slingshot
had zipped past the star on its closest approach seven months before, so parts
of the surface were now freezing over again. What had been boiling mud at the
closest approach to the star, then cold sticky mud, was now frozen down a few
meters. Anything on the surface would soon be locked in a glacier. The present
moment was our sweet spot, the only time of Slingshot’s year when part of the
surface was exposed and not under raging floodwaters. That fortunate timing was
a major reason why Skippy recommended we go treasure-hunting on Slingshot.

“You are looking at a veritable 
corn-u
-
copia

of advanced technology. A 
treasure trove

of Rindhalu technology, Joe,” he boasted.

“Uh huh. It only 
looks
 like frozen mud.”

“
Ugh
.
The cool stuff is under the mud, knucklehead. Or, hey, check this out,” the
view dizzyingly zoomed in, to show what looked like a refrigerator half-buried
in mud. “See? There is a juicy piece of treasure just 
waiting
 to be scooped up. Easy-peasy.”

Before I could think of a snappy reply, the face
of the glacier cracked, and a chunk the size of the Empire State building broke
off. Its base slumped to the ground, then the upper edge slowly toppled over,
faster and faster, to splat full-force right on the unfortunate alien
refrigerator, burying it under 
a thousand

tons of ice and rock.

Skippy was silent for a beat, then, “Maybe that
was a bad example.”

“
Ya think
?”

“That was just one small area, Joe. Most of the
target area-” He shut up as an even larger piece broke off the glacier, leaning
sideways so it fell onto the first piece, shattering both massive blocks of ice.
Shards tumbled through the air, sticking into the mud like daggers. “Well, heh
heh,” was all he could say.

“Why are pieces still breaking off the glacier?” I
demanded. “The planet is heading 
away

from the star now!”

“The surface 
is

cooling, Joe,” his tone was nervous and defensive. “You can see the mud has
begun to freeze. However, the internal pressure of the glaciers will continue
to push them forward, and pieces will break off in a process called ‘calving’.
We can manage the risk-”

Just then, a half-mile section of the glacier face
broke off and crashed to the ground, sending a shockwave through the mud that
was not so frozen as it looked.

“Um.” Skippy mumbled while I glared at him. “I’m
going to shut up now.”

“Wow,” Reed observed from the pilot’s couch. “That
is a 
lot
 of ice.”

I beckoned Smythe onto the bridge, and Desai rose
from the command chair, despite me gesturing for her to stay. “No Sir,” she
shook her head with a wry smile. “If you are arguing with the beer can, I don’t
need to be part of it. Besides, our survey teams will be aching to get down
there.”

“What? I looked through the glass into the CIC,
meeting the skeptical eyes of Chotek. “Desai, we are not letting survey teams
down there. That planet is not an amusement park.”

“It is not, Sir,” she agreed. “But it is a great
opportunity to test personnel and equipment in an alien environment. It would
be great to find out if any of our people or gear can’t perform, before we go
way beyond the galaxy.”

Chotek tilted his head, giving me a look of ‘She
has a good point’. The Stooges would not like taking the risk of sending
civilians to the surface of an unexplored alien world, and I wasn’t thrilled
about it either. I also had to agree that Desai was correct; the time to test
gear and people was 
before
 they went
into action. “Desai, I’ll think about it. Work with Chang to set up a rotation,
I don’t want more than one dropship allocated to civilians.”

“Yes.” She wore a 
smile,

having known I would agree with her suggestion. We had served together for so 
long,
 we knew how each other thought.

“Smythe,” I said as Desai left, leaving room for
our STAR team commander to step onto the cramped bridge of our battered space
truck. “What do you think? Could we use 
combots

to remotely search through the mud down there
?”

He had an answer ready, having, of course, already
considered the situation. “Sir, I don’t wish to sound callous, but we have more
people and armored suits than functional 
combots
.
We should not risk those machines by using them as JCBs.” Seeing the blank look
on my face, he added “That is what we call ‘excavators’ in Britain. You Yanks might
call it a bulldozer or backhoe?”

“Oh. Well, shit. Skippy, can you run the op using
some of your maintenance bots?”

“No way, Jose,” he sputtered with horror. “Joe, I
barely have enough bots left to perform basic running repairs. Taking the ship
apart in Earth orbit was tough on my bots, I’ve had to cannibalize them to keep
a basic 
set
 functional. Smythe is right.
In this case monkeys, um, I mean 
people
,
are more expendable than our machines.”

“No one is 
expendable
,”
I pounded a fist on the armrest.

“You know what I mean, Joe.”

“
This sucks
. Is there an
area safely away from glaciers, where we might find this whatsit you need?”

“It is possible,” Skippy conceded. “
But,
 the stuff that was recently dumped by a glacier is our
best bet for finding a working range extender. Farther away, items would have
been pushed downriver by flood waters. We won’t know until dropships can get
down there to fly low-level recon. To identify items under the mud, we must use
active sensor sweeps.”

“Again, Colonel Smythe, what do you think?”

He stepped forward to peer at the display. “I
think we have not had an opportunity for fun like this since we lifted off
Newark.”

 

 

By the time we got into 
orbit
 around Slingshot and conducted a high-level survey, there
were only fifteen days remaining before the local sensor network rebooted or
whatever. I sliced two days off the end of the schedule, because the 
Dutchman
 had been experiencing annoyingly
persistent glitches since Skippy put it back together in Earth orbit. The
current round of glitches 
were
 different
than the incidents that had plagued us, since we escaped from the Roach Motel,
and Skippy assured me that 
overall
 they were less
serious. Still, we could not afford to have a reactor fail, right when we
needed to jump away from Slingshot. To assure we could jump away at any moment,
we parked the ship in an orbit high enough that we didn’t need to climb before
engaging the jump coils.

It was a trade-off, like most things in life.
Keeping the ship in a high orbit meant it could jump immediately, which was
good. It also meant dropships had a 
farther

distance to travel for a rendezvous. If we were suddenly faced with a threat,
we might not be able to recover all dropships before the 
Dutchman
 was forced to jump away. To avoid the potential of a
dropship being captured, each craft that dropped down to Slingshot had to carry
a tactical nuke for self-destruct, because Skippy judged only a nuke would
erase all traces of human presence around the planet. Having to carry a nuke
reduced the payload each dropship could carry, and reduced the enthusiasm of
the civilian survey team for going down to the surface of an alien world. Well,
it reduced their enthusiasm for a short time, until the first survey team
rotated back, and the others were driven mad with jealousy.

Our dropships, flying low and slow and hammering
away at the mud with active sensor pulses, identified three areas that
contained a reasonable amount of alien junk buried beneath the frozen mud
crust, and were a reasonable distance away from collapsing glaciers for safety.
I could have sent only one team at a time down to the surface, to limit the
number of dropships we had exposed, but I judged it was better to get the job
done quickly and get the hell out of there.

 

 

“Hey, Smythe,” I said 
quietly
 as I helped him get his gear together, as the teams
prepared to set foot on the ruined world.

“I know, Sir,” he gave me a wry smile. “No
sight-seeing while we’re down there.”

“No,” I shook my head and handed the belt that
wrapped around his suit’s waist. “I 
want

you to sight-see, and to pick up 
souvenirs
.”

“A snow globe from the gift shop, Sir?” He thought
I was joking.

“No snow globes. Although,” I considered, “if you
do find a personal knickknack like that, something that belonged in a spider’s
house, bring it back.”

“Sir?” He paused in donning his helmet to look at
me.

“I want 
souvenirs

for the Commissioners. Give them something they can touch, something that used
to belong to the Rindhalu, from before their war with the Maxolhx.”

“We will be giving them a bribe?”

“We will be giving them 
perspective
,” I explained hopefully.

“Ah,” he understood. “Make them feel part of the
team?”

“Yeah. Plus, every time they look at the ancient
knickknack on their desks, it will remind them what will happen to Earth if
we’re not successful out here.”

“I will instruct the team to look for something
appropriately desktop-sized.”

“Not necessarily. It could also be something to
hang on a wall, next to the photos of them with various world leaders and
celebrities. Because you 
know
 they all
have a ‘Me Wall’ like that in their offices.”

“Undoubtedly,” he grinned. 

 

Smythe assigned six teams, two for each site, with
his STAR teams digging through the partly-frozen mud. They used powered armor
to excavate objects Skippy thought were good possibilities for the dingus he
needed, and the civilians sorted through the objects as they were uncovered. On
Day Eight of the thirteen I allotted for the mission, we had found trinkets but
nothing useful, and we were running out of time. Smythe informed me they needed
heavy equipment, to reach down deeper below the surface.

Shit. We had big, electric-powered construction
equipment like bulldozers and backhoes, but each unit had to be brought down in
sections by multiple dropships. Unless we used our one remaining big Condor
dropship, which I was not willing to do. Moving chilly mud on Slingshot was a
great test of the gear, but if we had to bug out quickly, we would need to
leave our large equipment behind. I did not like that idea at all. We had a
quick conference call, and I explained why I was having heartburn about big
machines crawling around on the surface. “Smythe, your people will need to make
sure not one bolt is left behind, if it falls off a tread down there. That’s
assuming we don’t have an emergency, and have to bail out before we can recover
the equipment.”

“Having machines that need to be disassembled,
before they can fit into a dropship, is a bit of a sticky wicket,” Smythe
agreed. “My people can scan the area for bits that might have fallen off, but
if we have to evac quickly, that is a major problem.”

“Yeah,” I was glad he agreed with me. “We need to
be sure we don’t leave anything behind. Anyone got an idea?”

Desai’s face lit up with a smile. “That’s easy,
Sir. If we have to bug out, I say we nuke the site from orbit.” She winked at
me. “It’s the only way to be sure.”

“That would certainly erase any trace of JCBs,”
Smythe’s amusement came through in his tone. “What do you think, Sir?” He
asked.

“Oh, what the hell,” I threw my hands in the air.
“Desai is right. We have nukes aboard the dropships already, another two or
three won’t make a difference.”

 

Using the excuse that we needed to see how
equipment 
and
 personnel performed on
an alien world, before we made a fateful jump far beyond the galaxy, I rotated
every person down to the surface of Slingshot. We also tested at least one of
each major type of equipment.

The rotation gave me an opportunity to go down to
Slingshot myself. Chang reported the science team was adapting well, and no one
had done anything especially stupid on the surface. The powered-armor suits
allocated to the science team had their software altered by Skippy, to protect
the users from themselves. Still, they could get themselves into trouble if
they weren’t paying attention. Being on an alien planet, a former Rindhalu
world, was a significant distraction for everyone. The Commissioners were subdued
during their own time on the surface, awed by what they were witnessing. They
chose their own 
souvenirs
 from the frozen
mud, both for themselves and their leaders back home.

I used my time on the surface to work with part of
the science team, who were trying to piece together a broken item of technology
that, really, was too big for us to bring up the 
Dutchman
 anyway. When it became apparent that my attempted help was
not actually helping, I left the scientists and wandered off on my own,
shadowed by a STAR team soldier to keep me out of trouble. My shadow was an
Australian who was probably resentful about having to babysit me, just as Poole
had when Smythe stuck her with that assignment. Poole was back on Earth,
training a STAR team at Fort Bragg. I missed her, but I could see why she had
opted to skip what was supposed to be a rather dull mission to locate a beta
site.

Anyway, I wandered off just far enough to be by
myself, and found a silver piece of junk poking out of the ground. I crouched
down and dug it out of the frozen, sticky mud. “Hey, Skippy,” I called. “Do you
know what this thing is?”

“Hmm. I’m only able to use the sensors in your
suit,” he replied. “It looks like part of an artificial gravity generator. That
is kind of odd, Joe. Why would the spiders have needed to generate gravity on a
planet? Hmm, unless- Give me a minute.”

I stood up, cradling the thing. It was smooth on
one end, jagged on the other, and about the size of a candy bar. On the
horizon, I could see a white line that was the glacier that covered the
southern half of the globe. As I waited, the ground shook from another massive
chunk breaking off and thumping down. Sensors showed the area closer to the
glaciers had a better density of objects for us to investigate, but I was not
authorizing that unless we got truly desperate.

Skippy interrupted my thoughts. “That object has
been subjected to radiation that is characteristic of long-term service in
space, and of heating that 
mostly
 likely
came from falling through the atmosphere. Joe, I believe that thing you are
holding was once part of a Rindhalu 
starship
,”
he announced with a touch of awe in his voice. “It must have been torn apart
during the battle.”

“Wow,” I shuddered, and bent down to place the
object gently back onto the froze surface of the mud.

“You are not going to keep it, Joe?” He was
curious.

“No. It feels kind of, disrespectful.”

“Disrespectful of the Rindhalu? The battle
happened a long time ago,” he chided me gently.

“Not of the Rindhalu. It feels disrespectful of 
you
.”

“Um, how do you figure that?”

“Because you think you also were aboard a
starship, then you ended up buried in mud on Paradise for millions of years. I
don’t want that thing sitting on my desk, and reminding you of what happened to
you, every time you look at it.”

“Oh. Wow. Thank you, Joe. You are a good friend.”

“I am a filthy, ignorant monkey, Skippy, but I do
my best.”

 

On Day Eleven, Skippy found the range extender
dingus he needed, found two of them actually. I ordered the heavy equipment
disassembled and transported up to the ship, while the away 
teams
 kept poking around for other stuff that might
be useful or least interesting. We got everything securely off the surface by
Day Fourteen, preventing me from having to order a nuclear strike on a planet
that already had suffered a hard life. We jumped away one day early, with the
bonus that Smythe’s team found a potential third range extender thing, only a
few hours before they lifted off the surface.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER NINE

 

Skippy tested all three WiFi range extender dinguses
while we jumped back toward the super-duty wormhole, and declared two of them
should do the job. He would not know for certain until he actually used it, which
meant there was a risk that our entire operation on Slingshot might have been a
waste of time. There was also a tiny 
but
,
as he said it, ‘non-zero’ risk that hooking up the extender dingus to our
wormhole controller module would ruin the module. That would leave us having to
use the other module to get home, except that module was needed to sell our
crazy-acting-wormhole story to the Maxolhx.

I had to trust his judgment, while warning him
that if he said ‘Hold my beer’ before testing the dingus, he would never be
allowed to sing on karaoke night again.

The night before we were scheduled to arrive back
at the super-duty wormhole, he woke me up at 0217, but not with the usual
frantic ‘Joe Joe Joe Joe’. Nor did he sound drunk, which was a blessing. I was
not in the mood for a discussion about The. 
Meaning.

Of. Life, or whatever.

“Hey,” he whispered. “Hey, Joe, are you asleep?”

“If I say yes, will you go away?”

“That was kind of a trick question.”

“I figured that. What is it this time?” I grumbled
groggily, hoping he would go away.

“Well, this is kind of a funny story,” he began.

I sat up in the bunk, being careful not to wack my
head. “Your funny stories are never ‘funny’, Skippy.”

“They could be funny afterward, when the crew is
sitting around drinking beers and remembering all the crazy shit we went
through, right? Assuming the crew survives, I mean. Which is looking more
unlikely, you know?”

“Shit. Skippy, it’s late and I want to sleep, so
please just tell me why this problem is so important, it can’t wait four hours
until I was going to wake up.”

“It 
could

wait another four hours, but every time I discover something important and
don’t tell you immediately, you throw a hissy fit.”

“I never get ‘hissy’, you ass. What is the
problem?”

“After I finished inspecting the three range
extenders, I looked at all the other trinkets the teams brought up from
Slingshot.”

“Ok, good. You were making sure none of that stuff
is dangerous, because you are concerned for the crew?”

“Um, actually I was trying to decide which 
souvenir
 I want to keep for my 
mancave
, but let’s go with the 
concern
 thing if you like.”

“Asshole.”

“Anyway, I discovered to my surprise that one
corroded, mud-crusted piece of junk we found is a data crypt.”

“Like a USB stick?”

“Close enough. It’s a memory storage device. The
interesting thing is what I found after I downloaded-”

“Downloaded? Holy crap, 
please
 do not tell me you got hit with another virus or worm!”

“What? No way, dude. I downloaded it into a virtual
sandbox, it was totally firewalled off. Do you want to hear what I found, or
are you going to keep whining about stupid shit?”

“You do understand why I am concerned about your
judgment, when you go off and poke your nose into-”

“Joe, all I hear is ‘whine whine whine’.”

I sighed, using the time to count to three. “Fine.
Please tell me the amazing thing you found. If you are going to say that data
thing was full of spider porn, I am gonna smack you with this pillow.”

“Not spider porn, Joe. Although, hmm, if you have
gotten bored with your usual selection of porn, I suppose-”

“Tell me right now, or I’m going back to sleep.”

“Well, heh heh,” his avatar looked away from me,
so I knew it was bad news. “It appears that the Rindhalu have a functioning
Elder AI.”

 

 

No way was I going back to sleep after Skippy
dropped that bombshell on my head. Asking him to wait, I ducked into the
shower, threw on some clothes and went to the galley for a cup of coffee. Some
of the crew were in the galley, getting prepared for early duty shifts, or
having just gotten off duty. They looked at me expectantly, knowing that when
the commander was up at an unscheduled 0230 in the morning, it had to be
interesting, and likely was not anything good. Hoisting my coffee and taking a
sip, I offered a bland explanation. “Skippy wants to talk about a new section
of his opera.”

There were sympathetic groans from the crew. “TTA,
Sir,” a pilot said to me, and held up a hand for a fist bump.

Because I was on the other side of the galley, I
held up my free hand and we did a virtual bump across 
the space between us
. “TTA,” I agreed with an eyeroll.

‘TTA’ was slang the crew had started using while
we were stuck on Gingerbread in the Roach Motel. It had several possible
meanings, depending on the circumstance, the way it was said, and the body
language of the person speaking. If Skippy did something truly awesome, like
making a Kristang battlecruiser jump in on top of other 
lizards

ships and promptly explode, ‘TTA’ was our prideful version of ‘Fucking-A’! Most
times, however, ‘TTA’ was said with a groan and an eyeroll. After a while,
‘TTA’ had come to mean enduring anything that potentially sucked, for the
privilege of being a Pirate. Like when a SpecOps team completed a grueling
training session, and Smythe declared “That was an 
outstanding
 effort. Let’s do it again.” The team would mutter ‘TTA’
to each other, while they put their armored suit helmets back on.

There was another, very common, 
usage
 of the slang phrase. Whenever Skippy
‘entertained’ the crew on karaoke night, people would sit 
stoically
 in their chairs, quietly muttering
‘TTA’ to themselves as a reminder that, eventually, the beer can would be done
singing for the evening.

When accompanied by a sad shake of the head or an
eyeroll, the acronym ‘TTA’ meant Trust That Asshole instead of Trust 
The
 Awesomeness
. Although

nobody told Skippy about the alternate meaning.

 

The coffee mug was empty by the time I got back to
my cabin, because medical research had indicated caffeine was more useful in my
body than in a mug. I suppose, like anything, there were some idiots who
disputed that research.

“Are you Ok, Joe?” Skippy asked as the door slid
closed behind me. His avatar was in the same place on top of a cabinet, as he
had been when I left to get coffee.

“Yeah,” I worked my scalded tongue around in my
mouth. “I drank the coffee too fast and burned my tongue. Ok, let’s talk,” I
sat down on my bunk, which out of habit, I had made up before getting into the
shower. After years in the Army, seeing an unmade bed bugged me. “Tell me how
you know the Rindhalu have an Elder AI, and that it is cooperating with them.
Wait!” I held up a finger. “Before I get worked up about this, there are many
kinds of AIs. Do you mean an AI like you, or something like the AI that
controls, oh, something like a toaster or a dropship?”

“An AI like me, Joe. Or, something like me. I do
not know what capabilities this AI has, because I suspect that some of 
my
 more awesome capabilities were not
originally part of my design. My best-”

“Wait. Hit the Rewind on that, please. What do you
mean by that? You were not always so fully awesome?”

“No. In some cases, I am guessing that I am now substantially
more awesome than my creators originally intended. I have developed
capabilities that I am pretty sure I didn’t have before. For example, my
ability to warp spacetime is far greater than the capability built into my
matrix. Do you remember when we first docked with the 
Flying Dutchman
, and I took over their original AI?”

“Yes,” I think I knew what he meant. “The 
Dutchman
 performed a pre-programmed jump
by itself, but you warped spacetime to throw the endpoint away from where the
ship was supposed to emerge, so the Thuranin fleet couldn’t track us.”

“Correct. Those little green pinheads assumed
their star carrier was lost in action,” he chuckled.

“Ok, so? You warped spacetime back then, and that
was not that long after we met.”

“I did warp spacetime at that time, yes. However,
it only takes a subtle tweak to the fabric of spacetime to throw a jump
endpoint off its target. Plus, when we captured the 
Dutchman
, I warped spacetime very close to myself. On our next
mission, when we got ambushed by a squadron of Thuranin destroyers, do you
remember what happened?”

“I remember a whole lot of shit happened real
quick back then, 
but,
 I think I know what you mean.
You warped a star, to burn those destroyers with a solar flare. Then you
flattened spacetime around us, so we could jump away.”

“Exactly, Joe, very good,” he praised me without
his usual snarkiness. “There are two great examples of me doing things I was
not previously capable of. Warping a freakin’ 
star
 required me applying a whole lot of energy, and creating the
warp effect far from my location. I was able to do that, only because I learned
something from warping when we stole the 
Dutchman
.”

“Whoa. At the time, you acted as if warping a star
was no big deal, like it was a simple magic trick or a hobby.”

“Well, of course, Joe. I am, as you know,
extremely modest.”

My eyeballs came very 
close
 to spraining, I rolled them so hard. “Yeah, that’s what I was
going to say.”

“Plus, it makes me appear even more awesome, when
I pretend to do incredible things with casual ease. Really,” he chuckled, “half
the time, inside I am crossing my fingers for good luck and 
saying

‘oh shit I hope this works’.”

“You 
what
?”

“Oh, um,” this time his laughter was nervous. “Not
recently, of course not.”

“
How

recently?”

“Do we really have to dwell on the past, Joe? It
is much more useful to consider our bright future, as we move forward together
in solidarity.”

“Uh huh. Did you get that slogan from the Joe
Stalin book of inspirational sayings?”

“No, why?”

“No reason. So, you are developing new and better
awesomenesses?” I didn’t know if that was an actual word, but it should be.

“Correct. Here is another example. To calculate
how to jump the ship 
through
 an Elder
wormhole, which is still one of my Greatest Hits, by the way, I had to invent a
new branch of mathematics. Not just a new 
type

of math, it is an entirely new way to conceptualize transdimensional variables.
More importantly, I had to rewire the way I 
thought

about math, to greatly streamline my processing capacity. That is also how I
was able to outthink the AI on the Maxolhx cruiser, when I made that ship
vibrate itself apart during our last mission. No way could I have done that
sort of thing when I was buried in the dirt on Paradise. Joe, I still have
significant and annoying restrictions on my actions, but in some ways, it is
like I have been freed to explore my full range of capabilities. Not only can I
now do things I suspect the Elders prevented me from doing, 
I might
 be doing things they didn’t expect I 
could
 do. It is kind of humbling, Joe.
For sure, I know the wormhole network never expected any fool to try jumping a
ship through connected event horizons, which leads me to believe 
that the Elders
 themselves did not think that
was possible.”

“Holy shit.”

“Holy shit indeed, Joe. The Elders build a network
of stable wormholes, that have remained in operation for millions of years
after they departed the galaxy. Yet, who said ‘
Duuuuuh
, can we jump through a wormhole’? A filthy monkey, that’s
who! Monkeys 
kick ass
, Joe!”

Maybe Skippy was right. Maybe my superpower, if I
had one, was being too dumb to know what questions not to ask. Creative
Stupidity might not look great on a resume, but it had been causing havoc
across the galaxy. “Sorry to drag us off topic there,” I began to apologize.

“Right,” he snorted, “because you never do 
that
.”

“Oh, shut up. The Rindhalu have an Elder AI, even
if it might not be quite as awesome as you are.”

“Oh,” he chuckled. “It is a safe bet that thing
can’t approach my awesomeness.”

“Really? You have been awake for only a short
time, right? How long has this other AI been active?”

“Oh 
shit
,”
he gasped. “I hadn’t thought about that. Thanks a lot, Joe, you jackass!” he glared
at me. “That thing has had a 
long

time to expand its range of capabilities. Oh, damn it, we might all be totally
screwed. Maybe we should take the ship outside the galaxy, and stay there.”

“Hey, before you start throwing stuff into a
suitcase to prepare for a 
long
 vacation,
how about you start with the facts? What do you know, and how do you know it?”

“I know the Rindhalu have an Elder AI, because
there was a mention of it in that data crypt the away team found under the mud
on Slingshot. The data is kind of vague, other than making it clear the
Rindhalu have an Elder AI, and that it is functional. The data crypt was sort
of about a research grant, one group of Rindhalu scientists applying for access
to the AI, to assist with their efforts. Sort of like how scientists on Earth
submit proposals to use a particle collider for their experiments.”

Part of me was wondering if the unfortunate
Rindhalu scientists had to listen to their AI sing to them, before it would
help their research. “That’s it? You don’t know how long this AI has been
helping them, or what it can do?”

“No. That info was not in the data crypt. Before
you ask, I also do not know 
where
 it
is, or was. If it was on the Rindhalu homeworld, then it is not there now,
because that is now in Maxolhx territory. The Rindhalu would have made every
possible effort to secure the AI when they were forced to leave their homeworld,
so I am certain the Maxolhx did not capture it during their brief war. It is
possible the Rindhalu lost the AI, if the ship it was aboard was destroyed, and
neither side was able to recover it.”

“That is not much to go on,” I mused,
disappointed.

“Having access to an Elder AI 
would
 explain the rapid technological progress of the Rindhalu,
within a hundred thousand years of their achieving 
starflight
 capability. In a short period, the spiders went from
barely being able to travel from a star system to a nearby Elder wormhole, to the
point when their civilization spanned the galaxy. Hmmm, it may also explain why
their initial burst of exploration faded just as rapidly, and they pulled back
to an inner core of worlds until the Maxolhx rose to prominence. Why bother
exploring the secrets of the Universe, when they have access to an Elder AI
that can explain everything to them? There is something else, Joe.”

“What?”

“Well, there have been persistent rumors about the
Rindhalu having something like an Elder AI, and-”

“
And you
never mentioned this
?” I screeched at him.

“They are 
rumors
,
Joe. Mostly they sound like the bitter complaints of lesser species, who are
jealous of the spiders. These rumors matter, because, um, there are rumors that
the Maxolhx also have access to an Elder AI.”

“
Shiiiiiiiit
,”
I groaned.

“Joe, there are a lot of rumors flying around,
with various levels of craziness. Until now, I dismissed rumors of current
species possessing an Elder AI to be total bullshit. Really, I thought the
rumor about the Maxolhx was more likely to be true. That would explain how they
were able to challenge the Rindhalu.”

“
Both

senior species might have pet AIs helping them? Great! That is just freakin’
great!”

“Come on, Joe. No way could an Elder AI be
considered to be a 
pet
.”

“You know what I mean. This is bad, Skippy.
Really, really, bad.”

“I agree, Joe. This news has me both hopeful and
scared.”

“Hopeful? About what?”

“Why, about meeting another of my kind, of
course.”

“Meeting?” I was about to tear into him, but then
I remembered something important. Skippy started helping us because we made a
deal; he would close the Gateway wormhole, and we would help him find an Elder
communications node, so he could use it to contact The Collective, an
association of Elder AIs. A 
whole lot

of shit had happened since we made that deal, and he had gone 
way
 beyond his original commitment.
Meanwhile, we had done pretty much nothing to help him contact others of his
kind. Skippy rarely mentioned our original deal, but when he did, he was
usually pissed at me about it.

There were, I think the correct phrase is
‘mitigating 
circumstances’
. I read that in a
PowerPoint slide somewhere. It is a fancy way of saying there were solid
reasons why we had not focused on finding and testing more communications
nodes, and why Skippy had not pushed the issue. For our part, we had simply not
had time to do much more than fly around the galaxy, trying to keep vicious
aliens from turning Earth into a lifeless cinder. Plus, trying to keep our
broke-dick ship from falling apart. Oh, and spending a full 
year
 fixing Skippy, after he stupidly
poked his nose into the canister of a dead AI and got attacked by an ancient
computer worm that was designed to kill rogue Elder AIs.

For his part, Skippy had learned things he didn’t
want to know, like maybe the Elders and their AIs were not the benevolent
beings he so fondly recalled. After our luxury vacation on Newark, he had grown
frightened of encountering the Elder AI community, if it still existed. Before
contacting The Collective, he had told me he wanted to know more about why an
Elder AI had been involved in exterminating the intelligent species on Newark. Skippy
was questioning 
whether he
 was dangerous,
and perhaps inherently evil.

I had assured him, several times, that he was
neither dangerous nor evil.

I was lying about that.

I had no information, other than my gut instincts,
that Skippy would not suddenly decide to crush humanity like the bugs we were
to him. Normally, gut instinct served me pretty well, but I had learned
something about that.
  
When Skippy casually
mentioned he had been studying psychobabble so he could better manipulate
humans, I decided maybe I should smarten up on that subject. Much of our gut
instincts come from reading subtle clues in tone and inflection when people are
speaking, or their body language. By ‘people’ I mean 
humans
. My instincts may be completely useless when dealing with an
ancient, super-intelligent alien computer. Skippy might be just pretending to
be clueless, for some purpose I could not guess.

I tried not to think about it. “You want to meet
this AI the Rindhalu have?”

“Why not? It should be able to answer 
many
 questions that have been 
worrying
 me, Joe.”

“Um, or it could be like that AI who pushed Newark
out of orbit. Here’s a thought; maybe it would be good to gather some info
about this AI, before you go asking for a play date, huh?”

“Hmm. That is a good idea. Except, how would I do
that? I assume you would not like me attempting to hack into a Rindhalu data
relay? Man, if you thought acquiring a set of pixies to hack a Maxolhx relay
station was hard, you do not-”

“Do 
not

screw with the Rindhalu, please!” I looked sadly at my empty coffee mug,
wishing I had brought the whole pot to my cabin. Except that would have made
people suspicious, and I wanted to keep this latest wonderful bit of news
quiet.

“Hmmph,” he sniffed. “You 
say
 you are my friend, Joe, but when I need something that is
really, truly important to me, you-”

“Being a friend sometimes means you have to stop a
buddy from doing something stupid.”

“Those are nice words. What I hear is, blah blah
blah Joe wants to stop me from fulfilling my destiny.”

“I’m not trying to-” I bit off a harsh reply. “I 
am
 trying to help. I want you to contact
others of your kind, 
and
 I want you
to survive the encounter. How about this? If the Maxolhx suspect their enemies
have an Elder AI, they would want to know all about it, right? They have
probably spent thousands of years trying to get info about the subject. They’ve
already done a lot of the work for you. Could you create a virus to load onto
the Maxolhx network, to search for data about Elder AIs, and report back to
you?”

“Huh.” He was quiet for a minute, thinking about
it. Instead of his avatar freezing, it swayed very slightly, like it would do
if it were a real biological being. That was interesting, it meant he was
continually upgrading it to be more lifelike. “Thank you, Joe. You really are
looking out for me.”

“I am,” I agreed quietly. “I really am your friend,
whether you understand that or not.”

“I thought I knew what friendship is, but maybe I
don’t,” his avatar stared off into space, looking pensive and sad. That display
of emotion was new also. “Perhaps in the future, I should assume you are trying
to help me.”

“We should both do that. Ok, I need to update the
senior staff about this. Do 
not
 tell
anyone else about this. You, uh, haven’t been talking to anyone else at the
same time, have you?”

“No. Despite you reminding yourself, that you have
to stop keeping the crew in the dark about bad news, I figured you needed to
make the call on this one.”

“I 
will

tell the crew, the senior leaders. What I do not want is Chotek or the Stooges
finding out about this.”

“I have a suggestion that, 
UGH
. I cannot 
believe
 I
am saying this. My advice is you do inform Count Chocula. There are political
aspects to this news, that he could help you navigate. Also, again I can’t
believe I am saying this, I think we can trust the guy to handle even this
shocking news. His judgment is solid.”

Skippy was not the only one surprised to find
himself trusting Hans Chotek. While Count Chocula and I were never going to be
golfing buddies, the guy had come through for us when it counted, and he
understood the hard decisions we had to make in a hostile Universe. “Ok,” I
agreed. “Good idea. He is the designated UN observer at our regular staff
meeting this morning, I will read him into the situation.”

“Good call. Are you going back to sleep now?”

“After hearing about the latest shitstorm we may
have to deal with, and gulping a whole cup of coffee? No way. I’ll get some
time in the Panther flight simulator.”

“Uh, sorry, no can do, dude. Both the simulator
and the Panther are in use right now.”

“At this time of the morning?”

“The pilots assigned to the Merry Band of Pirates
are very dedicated, Joe. Also very competitive, in case you haven’t noticed.
The simulator I created, plus the one built into the Panther, 
are
 in almost constant use.”

“Crap. Ok, well, shit.” It was too early for me to
hit the gym, without falling asleep on the treadmill. Coming down off the
adrenaline rush, I was starting to fade. Just then, ice ran up my spine as a
horrible thought struck me.

“Skippy, this other AI can’t manipulate wormholes,
can it?”

“What? No way, dude. Ha! As 
if
. Ummmm, huh. Well, I guess shmaybe it could? We have not seen
any evidence the Rindhalu possess that technology, so I think it is safe to say
that-”

“It is 
not

safe to say anything. If one of the senior species had the ability to
manipulate wormholes, they would keep that capability secret, until they were
ready to use it against their enemies.”

“Crap,” he groaned. “I hadn’t thought of that.
Thanks a lot, Mister Buzzkill. You may be right about that. Although, the
Rindhalu have been working with an Elder AI since before their war with the
Maxolhx. If they had the ability to control wormholes, I think they would have
used it by now.”

 
“That is
possible, Skippy. 
Or
, maybe they just
didn’t know Elder wormholes could be screwed with, until we flew around
willy-nilly treating the wormhole network like a ride at an amusement park.”

“I do not do anything 
willy-nilly
, Joe,” he scoffed. “Although, hey, that gives me a
great idea for a Broadway musical! Let me make a note of that,” he muttered.
“Ok, done. What were we talking about?”

“Are you- We were just talking about it!”

“Sure, back in the day.”

“Back in the 
day
?
It was two freakin’ seconds ago!”

“Two seconds in your slow-brain 
monkey time
, Joe. In magical Skippy time, we
last spoke sometime during the Cretaceous Period. To recall the no-doubt
insufferably dull contents of what you were saying, I would need to dig up the fossilized
remnants of your speech, dust it off with a toothbrush, and assemble the-”

“We were 
talking
,
about whether our actions might have shown the Rindhalu’s AI how to screw with
wormholes.”

“That is unlikely Joe, but if so,” he chuckled. “That
AI certainly would be learning from the 
best
,
right?”

“Really? 
That

is what you got, from hearing that a killer AI might know how to reopen the
Gateway wormhole?”

“Well, if that has happened, Joe, there’s not much
we can do about it, is there? So there is no reason I should not take pride
in-”

“AAAARGH!” I screamed.

 

 

At the morning meeting, I broke the potentially
disastrous news to the senior staff, plus Chotek. To keep the Stooges from
getting suspicious that this was anything other than a dull status meeting, we
stuck to the routine, except I had someone fill in for Reed as duty officer on
the bridge. That was not unusual, so no one noticed.

They all took the news well, certainly better than
I had. Skippy answered all their questions, including questions I should have
asked. In the end, Chotek summed up the situation. “Nothing has changed much,
has it? We knew it is best to avoid engaging the Rindhalu, this development
merely enforces that wisdom. I do approve of 
deploying
a virus spy, to investigate
 what the Maxolhx know about the subject.
Other than the fact that the Rindhalu at least 
used
 to have an Elder AI, what have we learned?”

“I learned, or relearned, what true friendship is
about,” Skippy mumbled, embarrassed.

“What? How is that?” Adams asked.

I leaned forward, placing my elbows on the table
and explained. “I told Skippy that sometimes, a friend has to stop you from
doing something stupid.”

Skippy snorted. “Like when I have a ‘hold my beer’
moment, Joe?”

“Yup, exactly,” I offered him a fist bump, and his
avatar returned the gesture. “See, a 
buddy

will understand why the stupid thing you want to do is cool. A true 
friend
 will say ‘That is a terrible idea.
We should get 
Darryl
 to do it’.”

Everyone laughed, even Chotek. “Ah, I could tell
you stories about 
boarding
 school in
Zurich,” he said, but we couldn’t get him to go further on the subject.

“Joe,” Skippy asked, “where was this Darryl guy when
you idiots found the 
defibrillator
 in the
school gym, and decided it was a good idea to try it on yourselves?”

“Uh,” my face turned red.

“Sir,” Adams cocked her head at me. “You used a 
defibrillator
 as a 
toy
?”

“Hey, we had been
drinking, and-”

“Seriously, Joe,” Skippy snickered. “You had 
one
 light beer. You only drank half of
it.”

“Uh-” I could not
think of anything to say, that would not make me look worse.

“Those units are not designed for 
recreational
 use, Sir,” Adams pointed
out.

“It wasn’t much fun for me, if that makes it
better,” I tried to smile.

“Sir,” Reed was giving me the same look I was
getting from Adams. “I have been to some pretty wild raves. Allegedly,” she
added quickly. “But I never heard of anything 
that
 crazy.”

“We only did it once,” I said, hearing how lame my
words were, only after I spoke them.

“Yes,” Skippy ratted me out. “That’s because the
battery ran out.”

“Can we go back to the important subject we were
discussing?” I prayed people would forget about the 
defibrillator
 incident. My own memory of that event was hazy, for
obvious reasons.

“Certainly,” Skippy agreed too quickly. I should
have been suspicious. “Let me summarize, if you don’t mind? Hans Chotek asked
what we have learned this morning. Well, we have learned that the Rindhalu
certainly had, and possibly still have, access to a source of information and
capability that could rival my own. We have learned that the rumors, about the Maxolhx
having access to an Elder AI, should no longer be dismissed as 
merely
 jealous talk by their clients. 
And
,” he paused dramatically, “we have
learned that the person chosen by the UN to lead this mission, is a knucklehead
who treats emergency medical devices as an amusement park.”

The meeting kind of
went downhill from there.

 

Chotek cornered me before we left the conference
room. “Colonel, I hope you understand that I am obligated to inform my
colleagues about this news?”

“Yeah,” I shrugged. “Figured I would let you make
that call.”

“You Americans have an expression, “Bad news does
not improve with age’?”

“You got that right.”

“Thank you for your confidence in my judgment and
discretion.”

“You’ve earned it. Do me a favor, please? Keep
them off my back for a day? We are going to be busy.”

It was his turn to shrug. “I will do my best.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TEN

 

“Hey Joe,” Skippy spoke even before his avatar glowed
to life on my desktop. “Thinking about the Rindhalu having an AI like me, got
me thinking about stuff I have done that I don’t think was originally in my
design capability. Like, how when you jumped the DeLorean away from Detroit,
and I controlled the jump from both ends. Anyway, I found something odd.”

“Yeah, I found something odd, too.” I didn’t
bother looking at him, focusing on a report from Smythe. “It was 
odd
 that you didn’t wake me up at zero
dark thirty last night to complain about the plot of that movie.” The previous
evening was 
Movie
 Night in the galley,
with the Chinese team selecting a spy thriller for everyone’s enjoyment. The
hero was, as far as I could tell, sort of a Chinese James Bond, and the movie
had car crashes and 
helicopters
 chasing
each other over Shanghai and it was a fun generic action flick. I enjoyed watching
it. Of course, Skippy the movie critic had to overthink everything.

“Well, I 
should

have,” he huffed. “The second half of that film made 
no
 sense at all. The scene where the-”

“Skippy,” I sighed, flipped my laptop closed
because when the beer can 
got
 on a good rant, I had to
nip it in the bud or he could go on for hours. “How about you prepare a
scathing review, to upload when we get back to Earth? No one here cares.”

“They 
should

care,” he sniffed with indignation.

“My bad, I interrupted you,” he always liked it
when I admitted to doing something stupid, so I apologized a lot 
as
 an effective way to distract him. So far, he
hadn’t caught onto my clever technique and I wanted to keep it that way. “You
found something odd? Like, more odd than normal?”

“Hmm, that is a good point. I am flying around the
galaxy and even outside the galaxy, in a stolen pirate ship crewed by a barrel
of filthy monkeys. It doesn’t get 
more odd

than that,” he mused to himself. “Anywho, yes, I found something very odd.
Like, my ginormous brain is unable to understand it.”

“The thing you do not understand, it is why some
people like Nutella?”

“
Ugh
. No. But now that you mention it-”

That was a 
rookie

mistake by me. Waving my hands to cut him off, I quickly added “I was joking,
Skippy. Sorry again. I will shut up so you can smack some knowledge on me.”

“Ok.” And that was all he said.

After a long pause, I leaned forward. “Um, you
were going to say something?”

“I was. But you keep interrupting me with stupid
distracting stuff, so I waited for you to blah blah blah something inane again,
like you usually do when I am trying to tell you something important.”

“Shutting up now, Oh Magnificent One.” With my
right hand, I mimed zipping my lips and turning a key in a lock.

“Fine. Remember on our Renegade mission, when the DeLorean
jumped away from the cavern under that planet, near the pixie factory?”

Without speaking, I nodded.

“The jump got screwed up, with the endpoint thrown
an hour into the future.” He paused again, and I again nodded silently. “Joe,
this is silly. You can talk, just don’t distract me.”

“Ok. I do remember that. You all thought the jump
wormhole had collapsed and killed the four of us, but to us in the Dragon, it
was a rough but normal jump. What is odd about that? I thought you already
figured out what went wrong with your fancy math.”

“My 
math

was not the problem, dumdum,” he was pissed that I had insulted him. “I was
attempting to pick up control of a jump wormhole from the far end in mid-jump,
which has never been done before in the history of the Universe. No one has
ever even considered doing such a lunatic thing because it is way too
difficult. I warned you there were a whole lot of variables that I could not
anticipate, like the condition of the inner wormhole at the time I attempted to
establish control after the freakin’ rip in spacetime had already formed 
inside
 another wormhole
. So
 if something went slightly wrong 
like
 I warned you, well. 
Excuuuuuuuse
. 
MEEEEEE
.”

“Whoa, dude. No one questions your awesomeness,
especially not after that mission. Hey, we got out of that cavern, no harm
done. And the Maxolhx still have no idea we were ever there. So, Skippy, what
is the odd part?”

“Joe, the odd part is 
where
 you arrived, when you finally showed up late for the party.”

“Um,” I stared at the ceiling while my mind raced.
“No,” I said slowly. “We jumped in close to the 
Dutchman
, just like we were supposed to
. What
 is odd about- oh. Shit. Wow.” My gasp was because I suddenly
understood what had been puzzling him.

“Egg-
zactly
, Joe. That star system is moving
around the center of the Milky Way galaxy at approximately eight hundred
thirteen thousand kilometers per hour. The 
Dutchman

was also orbiting the star, although that relative velocity was comparatively
meaningless. In the time gap before you emerged from the jump, the 
Flying Dutchman
 drifted almost eight
hundred seventy thousand kilometers from where it was when the jump was
initiated. You should have emerged an hour later and almost nine hundred
thousand klicks away, but instead you popped up right near the ship. You
emerged where the ship was right then, not the location I aimed at six hours
before. How the 
hell
 did that
happen?”

“Um, that was not a bonus bit of magnificence from
you?”

“Joe, you know I am all about taking credit for
everything I do, and also things people might plausibly believe I did. Sadly,
this time the answer is no, I didn’t do that. When I took control from the far
end in mid-jump, I used every bit of processing capacity 
to first determine the condition of the inner wormhole
,
then to adjust it as I could. I did not even have a hint that the far endpoint
had shifted into the future, that is why I thought you were 
dead

and I was shocked when you four knuckleheads popped up right near the ship.
Joe, somehow the jump process 
knew

the far endpoint was shifted forward in time, and it adjusted the location
accordingly.”

“Huh. The jump navigation computer in the DeLorean
did that by itself?” That surprised me, because that collection of spare parts
had barely survived the jump into the cavern under the pixie factory, and had
literally been on fire. Skippy told me he could not completely fix it, what was
why he sort of had to try to catch us from the far end of our outbound jump.
“Cool.”

“Not cool, 
you
 ignorant flea-bitten
ape,” he shook his head sadly. “No way could that nav system do something like
that. That thing was barely able to handle the inbound jump to the cavern. Even
if it hadn’t blown half its circuits and caught fire, it would have been a
freakin’ miracle if that nav system could have successfully computed and
managed the outbound jump. The calculations-”

“Wait,” I held up a finger shaking with outrage.
“That system could not have gotten us out of there, even if it hadn’t been
damaged? You knew that, and let us jump in there anyway, you little shithead?”

“Well, heh heh, in my defense Joe, I really did
not expect the DeLorean to survive the inbound jump. Surprised the 
hell
 out of me when you emerged in that
cavern instead of deep inside the planet somewhere. Truthfully, I figured the
odds were the outer wormhole would go unstable and collapse as you 
transitioned
. So, really, making preparations
for a return jump was something I did just to make you feel better. I certainly
never thought I would have to calculate an outbound jump. When you made it back
to the Dragon with a box full of blank pixies, I kind of had to scramble to
pull the math together.”

His avatar tilted its head and stared at me.
“Joe?” He asked after an awkward silence. “Come on, Joe, say something.”

“I, I don’t know what to say, Skippy. Seriously,
you allowed us to jump in there, even though you thought we could not return?”

“Oh for- Did you not hear anything I said? I did
not expect you to survive the 
inbound

jump, 
you
 knucklehead. Jeez Louise, if you get upset
about anything, it should be me feeding jump calculations into that shoddy
navigation computer. I made that thing out of used pinball machine parts.”

Through hands covering my face, I gritted my teeth
and growled at him. “And you think that makes it better?”

“Sure. Joe, remember, you were determined to break
into that pixie factory, even though I explained, or 
tried
 to explain, how extremely risky it was. You were all like,
‘hold my beer’, so I knew there was no stopping you. 
Really, 
I
 should be angry at 
you
, for making me participate in
something so dangerous.”

“
You

were never in danger!”

“I meant,” he gave an exasperated sigh, “danger to
my reputation for continued awesomeness. Did you think about that, huh? Did you
consider my feelings at all, 
you
 big jerk?”

“We can,” I ground my teeth together. “Talk about 
that
 later.” No, I told myself, we were
never going to talk about it, because trying to get Skippy to take
responsibility for his actions was a total waste of time. Worse, it was
counterproductive. He had a sneaky way of turning things around and making me
feel like I was at fault. “Can we get back to the subject? Maybe that nav unit
wasn’t damaged as badly as you thought.”

“It was damaged 
exactly

like I thought, 
you
 dumdum. Joe, I am sorry. Listen,
when you jumped into that cavern, I was guessing at some of the parameters to
the calculations, that is the honest truth. The math to create a wormhole
inside a wormhole didn’t exist until I invented it, and that math hints 
at stuff
 I still don’t understand. Once you
survived the inbound jump, partly through my awesomeness but mostly by luck, I
was able to get a better grasp of the math. It scared me, because I realized
that my math was incomplete. So, even if that nav system was working perfectly,
it could not have shifted the endpoint of the jump to compensate for the time
differential, because my math did not anticipate that variable.”

“Skippy, if you didn’t adjust the wormhole, and
the DeLorean’s nav system didn’t do it, then we’re left with, what? Invisible
elves?”

“Hence why I described the event as an oddity,
Joe. I have no answer. Does that monkey brain of yours have any 
idea
 how that could have happened?”

“I don’t even understand the 
question
, Skippy. Um, wait. The far endpoint of a wormhole is
supposed to be 
backwards
 in time, right? Something about, uh, causality?”

“Correct, Joe.”

“Then how did we jump into the 
future
?”

“Technically, the far endpoint 
was
 
backwards

in time, relative to- 
UGH
. How do I
explain this? You emerged from the jump slightly before the amount of time the
wormhole shifted you forward, because the endpoint was 
backwards
 in time, relative to 
your

frame of reference. Do not try to think about that, or your primitive tiny monkey
brain will explode. Listen, knucklehead, I now do sort of understand the math
explaining how and why you jumped into the future. I should not have been
surprised about that, really, it is called ‘space-
time
’. The question is how your endpoint was adjusted in 
space
 to compensate for your shift in 
time
. And no, I do not believe invisible
elves or unicorns were involved. Rather than continue this useless
conversation, I will ponder the question by myself. Maybe I will ask Nagatha to
check my math, although,” he grunted. “That would be a waste of time.”

“Hey!” I protested. “Stop picking on Nagatha, you
jerk.”

“Oh, you do not need to defend me in this case,
Joseph,” Nagatha’s voice was calm and soothing. “Skippy is correct that, if he
does not understand the full implications of the horribly intricate mathematics
he invented, then my own more limited resources are unlikely to provide
insight. Skippy 
was not being
 an asshole
by making that logical judgment.”

“Yeah, that’s right,” Skippy responded happily.

“He was being an asshole for saying it 
out loud
,” Nagatha added with a giggle.

“Hey!” The beer can 
retorted
. “I, um- Oh, shut up.” With that, his avatar faded away.

“Nagatha one, beer can zero,” she laughed, with a
musical sound.

“Thank you, Nagatha,” I leaned back in my chair.
“Forget the math for a second. Do you have any guesses how our jump wormhole
somehow knew to adjust itself, or whatever happened?”

“Unfortunately no. Joseph, you do know that I
occupy nearly all the 
capacity
 of this
ship’s original Thuranin computer, plus computers we recovered from the
junkyard in the Roach Motel?”

“Yes, Skippy explained that is how you are able to
control the ship without him.”

“
Mm hmm
,”
she made a sound like a teacher who did quite believe the dumb kid really
understood the concept. “You have been studying physics, and mathematics, so
you understand what a 
yottaflop
 is?”

“Uh, I kind of know what a yotta
byte
 is.”

“Think of a 
yottaflop

as the ability to process a yottabyte of data,” she explained patiently.
“Floating-point operations are not truly applicable to AIs like myself, however
I will use ‘FLOPS’ as a frame of reference. Joseph, just the portion of myself
that merely controls the ship’s stealth field, commonly runs at one point three

trillion
 
yottaflops
, and that is only one small system I am responsible for.
By human standards, I am frightfully smart. Compared to Skippy, however, I am,
well, 
you
.”

“Come on, Nagatha, you can’t be that dumb,” I knew
she was trying to boost my self-esteem. I was wrong about that.

“I am not 
dumb
,
dear. If Skippy’s intelligence is a stack of books one hundred feet high, then
my own ability is somewhere around the first chapter of the lowest book in the
stack.”

“Ok, and I’m, what, the dust beneath the cover of
the lowest book?”

“Do not speak so poorly of yourself, dear,” she
admonished.

“Yeah, I guess I-”

“Skippy already does that for you.”

“Oh, yeah.” Crap. For a moment, I thought she
would say something nice about me.

“Joseph, as Skippy has told you often, there are
many ways to measure ‘intelligence’. You are clever. Astonishingly clever at
times. In fact, you are 
perplexingly

clever.”

That somehow did not sound like a compliment, but
as it was Nagatha, I played it safe. “Uh, thank you?”

“There is no need to thank me, dear, I am not
attempting to flatter you. If you want someone to say nice empty words about
you being smart and special, that is your parents’ job.”

“Uh,” now I was certain she was not giving me a
compliment.

“Hush, dear. If you are seeking false praise, you
will not get it from me. Joseph, Skippy once described me as the president of
your fan club. That was 
before
 I had
the opportunity to work with you, and observe you in action. I now admire you
more than I could possibly have imagined. When I say your cleverness is
perplexing, I mean that as a compliment. So, when you asked whether I had any
idea how Skippy’s advanced jump calculations could explain what happened during
your jump forward in time, the answer is no. For all my vast intelligence, even
I am not truly capable of appreciating the full scope of Skippy’s awesomeness.”

“Ah, damn. Well, it
was worth a shot-”

“If you tell Skippy I said that about him, I 
will
 deny everything,” she laughed.

“Of course.”

 

 

“Colonel Bishop,” the Stooge, I mean, the 
Commissioner
 from Japan said as she
walked into my office. She hadn’t requested an appointment, and she hadn’t
knocked either. That was rude, maybe she was doing that because she had learned
being direct is the best way to deal with Americans. Of course, I had been rude
by avoiding her, so it was payback time, I guess. She sat down before I could
invite her to do so, and launched into a complaint before I could speak. “We
are concerned, 
greatly
 concerned,”
she added as if saying ‘greatly’ would make a difference to me. “That we have
so far accomplished nothing toward the goal of this mission.”

“I disagree,” I replied, with a smile that touched
my lips but not my eyes.

“I do not see what you
would call an accomplishment, when-”

Diplomats were supposed to be polite, to not
interrupt other people. I was not a diplomat. “The goal of this mission is to
safeguard the future of humanity. So far,” I continued before she could make a
retort. “We have discovered that super-duty wormholes require a special type of
controller module capability, to make connections beyond the galaxy. That
information will be crucial to the UN’s selection of a beta site, because it
makes any site outside this galaxy essentially untouchable, even if another
species acquires the ability to manipulate wormholes. We have successfully and 
safely
, landed on a Dead World, and
acquired multiple items of Rindhalu technology that we did not previously have
access to. Skippy is still limited in his ability to transfer technology to us,
so scavenging technology when we can 
is
 a standing
order for this ship and crew.” That part was entirely true. “We now also know
that each super-duty wormhole can connect to only a limited set of locations
beyond the galaxy. Whatever site we choose for 
a
refuge
, it will again be even more secure, because our enemies will need
to identify which particular super-duty wormhole we used to get outside the
galaxy.”

She thought a minute, tilting her head and looking
up at the ceiling. That stereotypical body language was 
probably
 something diplomats were trained to do, to slow down the
pace of negotiations. Now that I thought about it, that was a useful technique.
Maybe I should try it. Pausing to stare at the ceiling gives you time to calm
down, when what you really want to do is choke the asshole on the other side of
the table.

I am not an expert, but I think choking would not
be a good negotiating technique.

When she finished thinking, or play-acting to make
me nervous at the awkward silence, she looked at me. “What you said is true,
Colonel Bishop. You must also consider the downside of your argument.” One
corner of her mouth curled up slightly, like she was pleased to score a point
in a debate. “If there are only a few, or 
one
,

wormholes
 to provide access to the beta
site, our enemies could blockade it. We would be unable to bring additional
people to our new refuge.”

I shrugged. “Ma’am,
that is not my problem.” 

That surprised her, because she jerked her head
back. “Excuse me?”

“The UN set the parameters of this mission as identifying
potential beta sites. 
They
 will
decide which site to set up as a refuge, and whether we are going to do this at
all. Once the beta site has a sustainable population, and the colony is able to
grow food, we will have accomplished the goal. We are 
not
 trying to evacuate the entire population of Earth.” In one of
the many research papers churned out by the UN, some group of genetic
scientists estimated we needed about four hundred people at a beta site, to
make a 
viable
 population. The actual
minimum number for genetic diversity was lower than that, they set four hundred
as a safety margin above the minimum. In an extreme emergency, if all we could
get to the beta site were four hundred people, they would all have to be
carefully scanned for genetic diseases. Deciding which people were ineligible
because of their genetic makeup was getting into uncomfortable Nazi-style
eugenics, but the scientists had been unanimous that we could not afford such a
small population to carry fatal diseases to the beta site.

My thinking was we just needed to get enough
people there, so the population was large enough to be diverse, without a whole
lot of subjective decisions about who was and was not worthy to carry on
humanity’s future.

But,
 that also was not my
problem.

“I see,” she gave me a look like she was mentally
crossing my name off a list.

That pissed me off, so I defended myself.
“Commissioner, the United Nations has made it clear that military commanders,
and 
myself
 in particular, will not be allowed to make
decisions for humanity. We have a specific mission, and we are not to exceed
our authority.”

“Of course, Colonel,” she nodded, and her
expression softened somewhat. “You said that this mission is already
successful. We will be bringing home news that the Rindhalu have an Elder AI.
Are you concerned about the effect that potentially disastrous information will
have on the decisions the UN might make about the beta site?”

“No.” I again did the smile thing without
involving my eyes. “I do not think you have considered the full impact of
learning that the Rindhalu have a cooperative Elder AI. If the Rindhalu’s AI is
able to manipulate wormholes the way Skippy does, then the spiders will not be
so desperate to acquire that ability from 
us
.
No doubt the Rindhalu will not be happy that we lowly humans possess such a
powerful capability, but they might settle for us voluntarily agreeing to
restrict our manipulation of wormholes. The important point is, the Rindhalu
will not need to threaten Earth to acquire that capability, because they
already have it. Also,” I held up a finger for emphasis. “
Also
, the spiders will be 
very

eager to assure that the Maxolhx do not acquire the technology to control
wormholes. The Maxolhx can only get that technology from us, so the Rindhalu will
have a powerful incentive to prevent the Maxolhx from ransacking Earth.” I
smiled, and that time it was genuine.

I did not tell her that we had no evidence the
Rindhalu’s AI could screw with wormholes the way Skippy did. Skippy had not
developed that capability until I asked the ignorant question of whether it was
even possible. Unless the Rindhalu had the same capability as the Merry Band of
Pirates, they would very much want to take our technology

I also did not mention that, regardless of whether
the spiders could screw with wormholes, they would very much 
not
 want humans to have that ability. As
long as humans could manipulate Elder wormholes, we were a potential threat to
the oldest star-faring species in the galaxy. And as long as humans had that capability,
other species would want to steal 
it
 from
us. So, the best way for the spiders to assure no other species acquired the
technology from us, was to assure 
we

no longer have it. And the only way to make absolutely certain that no humans
gave that knowledge to other species, was for there to be no humans left alive.

Finally, I did not mention that in any battle
between the two senior species, Earth would inevitably be caught in the
crossfire and destroyed.

Basically, what I said, about the Rindhalu having
an incentive to prevent the Maxolhx from ransacking Earth, was pure bullshit.
But she didn’t know that, because diplomats didn’t think in terms of threat
assessment. Eventually, the Three Stooges would puzzle out the truth, or Chotek
might explain it to them. 
But,
 the happy fantasy that
the spiders might be our protectors would keep the Stooges off my back for a
while, and that is all I needed.

“That, is,” she spoke slowly. “An interesting
possibility.”

“It’s only a possibility,” I said with my best ‘aw
shucks I am just a simple-minded grunt’ impression. “I know you Commissioners
will have a heavy workload before we return to Earth,” I shrugged again. “But
it would be useful if you could prepare an evaluation of the situation, for the
UN to consider. They have strategists, but they haven’t been out here. You 
have
,” I said with a smile. That was as
much sucking–up as I could do without making it insultingly obvious. “The four
of you will have a unique perspective to offer,” I added, suppressing my gag reflex.

“We will have to consider this,” she stared
through me, as if her mind was already far away, working on more important
things.

“In the meantime, Commissioner, are we clear to
proceed to the candidate wormhole?” We were going there anyway, I asked permission
to boost her ego. Doing that had worked with Hans Chotek
. Although
 he had taken many months before he reached the point of
planning how to start an alien civil war for us.

“Yes, I believe so. I will confirm that with my
colleagues.” She stood and held out her hand. I shook it, not too firmly and
not too long. “Colonel, you have given us much to think about.”

“Hopefully,” I smiled again, hoping the meeting
would end before my fake-smile muscles wore out. “You can do that thinking on
the surface of a new world, soon.”

She left after exchanging way too many parting
pleasantries.

Skippy tells me that, even for a monkey, I am
particularly dumb. 
But,
 sometimes I think I am pretty
damned smart. Skillfully handling the Stooges made me proud of myself.

I hope it didn’t backfire on me.

 

 

The trip back to our chosen super-duty wormhole
was uneventful. We didn’t encounter any ships or threats of any kind along the
way, not even long-faded residual jump signatures. 
Space is big, and the odds of us running into another ship in the vast
emptiness of interstellar space are so small Skippy did not bother to calculate
them.
 The danger of stumbling upon another ship was when we were in a
star system, or near a relay station or an Elder wormhole. Because the super-duty
wormhole had been dormant for a very long time, and no current species even knew
it existed, our voyage was lonely and safe, just the way I like it.

Our voyage to that wormhole was also useless,
because when we got there, Skippy smacked me with bad news. “Crap! It didn’t
work. This damned thing is useless,” he fumed.

From the command chair, I looked back at Chotek
and the Three Stooges, who had gathered in the corridor. The Stooges were
looking at me, and Chotek, with an unfriendly ‘We told you so’ expression on
their faces. “We have two of those range extender dinguses,” I reminded Skippy.
“Could we try the other one?”

“No, dumdum, that is not the problem,” he snapped
at me. “The range extender device worked perfectly well with the controller
module, just like I predicted it would. It worked after, uh, it almost blew up
and destroyed the ship. Anyway, the-”

“Whoa!” I waved my hands. “Can we go back to that
last part?”

“When I said ‘anyway’? What, you didn’t hear me
the first time?”

“You know what I mean, you little shithead. You
nearly blew up the ship?”

“
Nearly

is such a vague term, Joe,” he tried to weasel out of it.

“Colonel,” Nagatha broke into the conversation.
“Skippy is correct that ‘almost’ and ‘nearly’ are descriptions that lack a necessary
scientific precision.”

“Ok, whatever,” I agreed.

“The truth is,” she continued, “there was only a
seventy-eight percent chance that the ship would have been destroyed or
crippled, if Skippy had not contained the unexpected feedback reaction at the
last second.”

I glared at his avatar. “The last 
second
?”

“Please, Joe,” he scoffed. “I am sure that ‘the
last second’ sounds dramatic in your slow monkey time, but in magical Skippy
time, I had 
plenty
 of-”

“No, you did not,” Nagatha scolded him. “Skippy, you
should not lie to the monkeys like that. Colonel Bishop, the truth is, the
feedback came within a femtosecond of tearing the ship apart. For your
information, a femtosecond is one thousand attoseconds.”

“Oh, of course it is,” I was not successful in
hiding my ignorance.

“To explain the situation more usefully,”
Nagatha’s voice dripped with scorn. “Skippy was shouting ‘Oh shit oh shit oh
shit oh shit’ to me, and attempting to upload his consciousness into higher
spacetime in case the feedback caused the ship to explode.”

“
You
 traitorous little 
weasel
,” I shook a fist at him.

“Hey, why can’t you see what truly matters here?
The ship did 
not 
explode, because I
once again demonstrated my extreme awesomeness. And, now I know how to control
the Rindhalu range extender’s connection to the controller module. Plus, 
plus
, I wasn’t even able to lie to you
about it. So, it’s all good, homeboy. Bonus, when you think about it.”

“Colonel,” Desai chided me gently from beside the command
chair. “Perhaps we could address Skippy’s many failings at a later time?”

“Ok, fine,” I agreed. “But I am warning you, beer
can.”

“Yeah, I am in big trouble, yadda yadda yadda.
Like 
that
 is anything new. Well, this
is, heh heh, a puzzle for sure.”

“A puzzle? Like what?”

“Like, this particular 
stupid
-duty wormhole can’t connect to where we want to go! It can
connect to the Greater Magellanic Cloud, and a couple of local star clusters we
are not interested in visiting. But it cannot connect itself to the wormholes
in any of the dwarf galaxies we want to explore. Stupid thing.”

“Crap. Why not?”

“Because, and this is something I just learned
about the overall architecture of the wormhole network, there are force lines
within the Milky Way that interfere with connections in that direction.”

“This is not good, Skippy.”

“No, this 
is

good, 
you
 ignorant monkey. Remember back when you
asked me to find Elder sites that were not known to any existing species? You
said my knowledge of the Elders would allow me to predict where they logically
would have built outposts or colonies or whatever.”

“Yeah, I remember that. I remember you did an
awesome job, a job no one else could do.” I praised him, because I also
remembered he was very frustrated that some sites he thought logically 
should
 have an Elder site were empty and
he didn’t know why. He was sensitive about that, and I didn’t want to hurt his
feelings by reminding him of it. Of course, he later realized some of those
sites actually 
did
 
previously
 have an Elder site, but they had
been blown up or pushed into another dimension.

“I did do an awesome job,” he agreed. “Despite my
initial and wholly unwarranted doubts about my own incredible abilities. My
point is, back then part of my logic for determining where the Elders would
have selected sites for outposts, was based on force lines in the galaxy.”

“Yeah, I remember that. I also remember you never
explained what that means.”

“It is way too complicated for simple monkey
brains, Joe. Anywho, those same force lines apparently partly govern the
architecture of the wormhole network. Now that I have that little bit of
trivia, the behavior of the wormhole network is beginning to make sense to me.
Like, I might be able to understand why the network shifts periodically, and I
might eventually even be able to predict future shifts.”

“Whoooo,” I let out a low whistle. “That would
truly be awesome. Does any of this help us with the current problem? Like, how
can we get to the Sculptor galaxy?”

“It solves our current problem, Joe. Understanding
how force lines affect the network allows me to determine which super-duty wormhole
might connect to Sculptor. I have good news and bad news.”

“Ah, crap,” I stole a glance back at the Stooges,
and they were glaring at me. “Bad news first, please.”

“Because of shifts in force lines as the Milky Way
rotates, and because it is moving away, there is no wormhole in this sector
that can possibly connect to one of our choices, the Carina dwarf galaxy. From
what I understand, either we need to wait twelve million years for the Milky
Way to rotate enough to bring the force lines back into alignment again-”

 
“Twelve
million years? I will set a timer on my zPhone and move on, Ok?”

“Probably a good idea. Or, we would need to 
build
 a new super-wormhole. Which,
before you ask me a stupid question, I can’t do.”

“How about we forget about Carina?”

“In that case, the good news is there 
is
 a super-duty wormhole nearby that
should connect to the Sculptor dwarf galaxy. And, 
bonus
! Within seven hundred thousand years, the rotation of the
Milky Way will cut off access to the wormhole in Sculptor.”

“Uh,” I was puzzled. “Why is that a 
bonus
?”

“Because, dumdum, after Sculptor is cut off, the
beta site will be 
totally
 secure from
nasty aliens.”

“Uh huh. So, all the beta site needs to do is hang
on and be quiet for almost a million years, and all their problems will be
solved?”

“Yup. Neat, huh?”

“Oh, yeah, that is 
fantastic
. I can’t wait to tell the good news to UNEF. They will be
thrilled.”

“Your statement would be more convincing if you
hadn’t rolled your eyes.”

“Sorry about that. Seven hundred thousand years is
kind of a long time for monkeys, you know?”

“Ah,” he sighed. “I suppose you are right.”

“How far away is this super-duty wormhole we can
use?”

“One jump, Joe. Kind of a short one.” He knew that
when I asked ‘how far’ I did not care about absolute distance.

“Wow. That close?”

“Close enough that we could fly there without
jumping, if we wanted to wait four months.”

“I think we’ll jump. Why so close? Is this a
wormhole cluster?” In some places, wormholes were arranged so a ship could go
through a wormhole, and perform only a short jump to get to the next wormhole.
There were clusters with as many as seven wormholes, although most clusters had
three wormholes. Skippy had told me clusters were tricky to set up, because the
network needed to make sure the wormholes did not overlap or damage the
underlying spacetime. “Did the Elders need a cluster to travel between dwarf
galaxies, by going through the Milky Way?”

“It is not a cluster the way you think of them,
Joe, it was not set up to provide a quick route for transit. These wormholes
are close together because they utilize the same force line. Or, they did, way
back when the Elders created the network. The force lines have shifted since
then as the galaxy rotates, and stars within the galaxy move relative to each
other. It’s complicated. We are ready to go when you are.”

“Nagatha? You concur?”

“Yes, dear,” she responded cheerfully. “I
calculated the jump 
myself,
 Skippy only checked my
data.”

“Pilots,” I flashed a thumbs-up to demonstrate my
confidence. “Take us out.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER ELEVEN

 

Thankfully, the next super-wormhole could connect
to the Sculptor dwarf galaxy as Skippy predicted, except establishing that
connection was not the type of quick magic the beer can usually 
worked
. Just reactivating the long-dormant
wormhole took three days, and Skippy did not fill me with confidence, when he 
confessed
 he 
was having

to learn the procedure as he did it. After the super-wormhole was active and
stable, he tried four times connect it to Sculptor, without success.

“Skippy, what is the problem?” I asked him after
the fourth failed attempt. When I asked the question, I was in my office and I
spoke quietly.

“The problem? The problem right now is a dumb
monkey asking me stupid questions.”

“Listen, I’m not saying I have a prayer of
understanding the technical details, but can you break it down Barney-style for
me?”

“Ah,” he gave a weary sigh. “The real problem is,
the stupid network will not give the protocols to me, so 
I’m having
 to do everything the hard way and it

sucks
. The wormhole tries to connect,
and just when I think it’s working, the connection fails. There is some factor
I don’t know about. This wormhole was originally set 
up

so it connected to the Draco dwarf galaxy, and it’s like it keeps wanting to
reconnect there, instead of to Sculptor 
like

we want.”

A star map was on my laptop display, I adjusted it
to show the entire Milky Way galaxy and everything around it. As my fuzzy
memory recalled, the Draco and Sculptor dwarf galaxies were on opposite sides
of the Milky Way, so how could- Ah, I had to trust the beer can 
knew
 what he was doing. “Ok, how about you let
it connect to Draco, then?”

“Um, because we don’t want to go to Draco, 
duh
. Damn, sometimes you are such a
freakin’ dimwit that I just want to-”

“Listen, right now you are trying to do two things
at the same time. You are trying to get the wormhole working again, 
and
 to create a new connection.
Eliminate one step, then. Let it connect to Draco like it wants to. Once you know
how to make it do that, sever the connection and adjust it to connect to
Sculptor, 
like
 
we
 want.”

“Huh. Hmmm. Holy shit, you may be right. Joe, if
this idea works, and anyone learns that I needed a 
monkey
 to tell me how to do something so obvious that-”

“No one is ever going to know, Skippy. I won’t
tell anyone.”

“You would do that for me, dude?”

“Sure.”

“Wow, you are truly a good friend. Assuming this
idea works, I mean. Otherwise, you are still a dumdum monkey and you should-”

“Skippy? I am seriously reconsidering whether to
tell people about this.”

“Got it. Trying it now, this is good timing
because the wormhole just reset from the last failure. Aaaaaand, wait for it,
wait for it- Crap! I am totally humiliated 
again
.
It worked. Uh! Not so fast, smart guy! All it did was reconnect to Draco. Ha!
The connection is not even stable. 
You are not
so smart now, are- Damn it.
 The connection 
is
 becoming stable.”

“I will await your glowing praise, Oh Not So Smart
One.”

“You will be waiting a 
looooong
 time for that, 
monkeyboy
.
Remember your promise.”

“Oh, Joseph,” Nagatha broke into the conversation.
“That was 
frightfully
 clever.”

“Crap!” Skippy exploded. “I forgot about the
snooper on the line. Nagatha, do you have to listen in on every conversation?”

“Only the important ones, dear. The problem you
were discussing with Joseph was, as the expression goes, a ‘show-stopper’. I
thought it important that I be informed, as I am the ship’s control system.”

“Yeah, right,” Skippy was thoroughly disgusted.
“Like 
you
 will ever need to
reconfigure a wormhole’s network connection. You just love seeing me
humiliated.”

“I might never need to, as you say, ‘screw with’ a
wormhole. However, I do need to understand what to do when unexpected problems
occur. Listening to your conversation was quite instructive, and not only
because Joseph once 
again
 developed
an innovative solution to a problem that had stumped a sophisticated AI. It was
useful for me to see how you were unable to think of a way around the problem,
because that helps me understand my own limitations. After all, Skippy, you
programmed me.”

“Oh,” he replied in a very small voice. “Um,
sorry. I guess you did have a legitimate reason for-”

“Watching you be humiliated was simply a 
delicious
 bonus, dear,” Nagatha’s laugh
was musical.

Skippy was fuming mad. “Ooooh, as much as I hate
Joe, you are at the top of my-”

“Nagatha,” I interrupted before they could get
into a long shouting match. “I promised Skippy no one would hear about this, so
you keep quiet. That’s an order,” I added for Skippy’s benefit. “Ok, beer can,
the wormhole can connect to Draco. Can you now try resetting it to connect to
Sculptor?”

“Not yet, Joe. What I would like to do is wait for
the current connection 
to stabilize fully
,
right now we would not want to take the 
Dutchman

through there. Then, I will close it and reopen it to Draco again, to see how
quickly the connection can be established and how stable it is. Only 
then
 will I try the connection to Sculptor.
Before you ask me yet another stupid question, we care about the stability of
the connection because once we are way out in Sculptor, we want to be 
damned
 sure there is not a problem that
prevents us from coming back. The force lines 
that 
 
the
 network relies on are in the Milky
Way, so the connection needs to be solidly anchored here.”

“Good safety tip,” I agreed. “I will humbly stay
out of your way and let you do your awesome thing.”

 

 

Skippy did his awesome thing again. He created a
successful connection to the Sculptor dwarf galaxy, a distance of almost three
hundred thousand lightyears. That blew my mind. We would go through the
wormhole from one event horizon to the other, and to us the distance was almost
nothing at all, like passing through a sheet of paper. At one point, the nose
and tail of even the new shortened Frankenship version of the 
Flying Dutchman
 would be separated by
three hundred thousand lightyears. Skippy was right, no way could my poor
monkey brain comprehend something like that. 

When he was certain the connection was fully
stable, Skippy advised us to go through. Of course the Commissioners had to
argue about it, even though that decision had been made way back on Earth.
After six hours of delay, probably to demonstrate it was 
their
 decision to make, they gave us approval. Skippy opened the
wormhole, and Reed took us through. It was probably my imagination, but that
time it 
felt
 like we traveled a long
way, although the timer showed it took no longer than a short transition.

We had done it. We were outside the Milky Way
galaxy, far from the edge of that vast disc of stars. It may have been cowardly
of me to think that way, but I felt enormous relief that we were now beyond the
grasp of murderous aliens. Yes, it was cowardly of me to feel happy that my own
lazy ass was safe, although billions of people on Earth were still at risk.
Hey, I’m human. And I’m not staying in the Sculptor dwarf galaxy, not even if
we find a prime candidate for a beta site there. The fight wasn’t done with me
yet, and I wasn’t done with the fight. 

 

While Nagatha and Skippy worked together to get
every system aboard the ship checked out stem to stern, I tried using the
external sensors. “Hey, Skippy, can we see the Milky Way from here?”

“Of course, duh,” he replied distractedly.

“No, I mean, we are 
outside
 the galaxy now. Not just outside, we are like, above or
below it, right? Can we see it as a disc, not just a fuzzy line across the sky?”

“Ordinarily, the answer would be no, because of
interstellar gas clouds or nebulas in the way of your view, but you are in
luck. The Sculptor dwarf is old and has very little gas and dust floating
around, so the view is clear. I will take pity on you and entertain the monkey.
Look at the main display.”

Wow. Simply, just 
wow
. The Milky Way was laid out above us in all its glory. While I
am sure Skippy cleaned up and enhanced the image, it was truly spectacular. The
sight rendered me speechless for a 
long

moment, while the crew concentrated on their tasks in the CIC. It made me feel
truly homesick. Homesick for what Earth used to be, what my life used to be,
back when we looked up at the stars in wonder rather than fear.

“Can we see our Sun from here?” I finally asked.

Skippy huffed like I was bothering him with
frivolous requests. “Not easily. I will need 
to
seriously enhance the image
, but here it is.”

The display shifted to show a single 
star,
 a yellow disc slightly fuzzy around the edges. I knew
not to ask him for a view of Earth, the 
Dutchman
’s
sensors were not good enough for such accuracy.

“The light we’re seeing left our Sun three hundred
thousand years ago,” I had not actually asked a question. “That is a 
loooong
 time.”

“Indeed it is, Joe,” Skippy agreed. “When that
light left your home star, 
Thag
 the
Caveman had just sat down for what he was assured would be a short wait at the
Department of Motor Vehicles. Sadly, he is 
still

waiting.”

Leave it to Skippy to joke at such a momentous
time. He did make me laugh. “Three hundred thousand years, huh? There are 7-11s
that have had Big Bite hotdogs rolling on the grill for longer than that. Ok,
now that we’ve gotten the sight-seeing out of the way, where do we go next?”

“We only have two choices, Joe. There are two
other wormholes in Sculptor. All this was in the briefing materials you were
supposed to-”

“Yeah, yeah, I read it, Ok? What I meant was, has
anything changed since we got here? The info you had about this place is also
three hundred thousand years old.”

“Oh. In that case, I had better confirm the remote
sensor data.”

“The briefing pack said there wasn’t a strong
reason to choose one wormhole over the other, so let’s go to the closest one,
uh,” I looked at my tablet. We had designated the super-duty wormhole that
connected to the Milky Way as ‘Sculptor-Alpha’. “Let’s try Sculptor-Bravo.”

 

It was odd that the Elders had not put the only
three wormholes in the entire galaxy close to each other, and Skippy had no
idea why. Getting to Sculptor-Bravo took five long jumps, the first four were at
close to maximum range for our Frankenship. When we arrived where the dormant
wormhole was supposed to be, there of course wasn’t anything to see. “How long
to bring this one back to life, Skippy?” I asked after we secured the ship from
the last jump, and checked that nothing vital had broken.

“I do not know, Joe.”

That was odd, I told myself. Usually when he said
something like ‘I do not know’ it was with a snarky tone because he was 
busy
 and I was bothering him. This time, he sounded
surprised. Surprised and concerned. “What’s up?”

“It’s not here.”

Assuming he was playing a joke on me, I went along
with it. “We know it’s not there, like in our spacetime. You told us it is
dormant, so wake it up from whatever higher spacetime it-”

“You don’t understand. It’s not here. It’s not
anywhere. It’s 
gone
, Joe.”

“Explain, please,” I asked with a bewildered look
at the CIC crew.

“My best guess is, when that wormhole was no
longer needed, the Elders decommissioned it. Took it apart, or pulled the plug.
It simply is not here. Remember, we never actually saw evidence of its
existence, my knowledge came from querying the network. The network had a
registration signature for two wormholes within Sculptor, and there wasn’t
anything in the data tagging this wormhole as having been taken out of service.
This is odd.”

“Ok.” With the corner of my eye I saw the CIC crew
giving me questioning looks, and I got a sinking feeling in my stomach. Going
back to Earth without finding a suitable candidate for a beta site was
understandable, UNEF had known that might happen. Going back to Earth and
reporting we had traveled all the way to Sculptor, but had been utterly unable 
even to conduct a proper search
 would make me
look like a fool. Again. “Based on what you know now, is the other wormhole
also gone?”

“There is no reason to think the Sculptor-Charlie
wormhole has been removed.”

“Great, then-”

“There is also no reason to think it has
 not
 been removed. I simply do not
know.”

“Outstanding.” One of my fists bashed the side of
my chair. I was pouting and being childish and I knew 
that

and I didn’t care. “If the other one is also dead, is there any place around
here that might be a good candidate for a beta site?”

“No, Joe, I am sorry. None of the stars within ten
jumps is suitable for supporting human life. We could go farther, but the
stupid United Nations says we aren’t allowed to travel more than ten jumps from
a wormhole. The stars in that range are mostly red giants, or red dwarfs. 
Also brown dwarfs, plenty of those worthless star
wannabes.
 Those types of stars do not provide a ‘Goldilocks Zone’ for
habitable planets. This whole little galaxy is poor in the heavy elements
needed for 
formation
 of planets, and for
creating and supporting life. My sensor scans here confirm there is no possible
beta site in this local area. We need to go through the Sculptor-C wormhole, or
go back home and try again.”

“Understood.” Ten jumps 
were
 the safe limit we could take our beat-up ship from a wormhole.
That number was based on Skippy’s estimate of how quickly critical components
got worn down by repeated jumps. Ten jumps outbound meant another ten jumps
back to the wormhole, that was too far for anyone’s comfort. “Everyone, keep
your fingers crossed that Sculptor-Charlie wormhole is just asleep, Ok?”

 

The crew had kept their fingers crossed, or prayed
or used whatever good-luck charms they had, because within forty minutes of our
arrival at the other local wormhole, our beer can 
announced
 the Charlie wormhole was there. It was merely dormant,
and he was in a very slow, careful process of awakening it. The procedure for
reopening this wormhole was a bit different from the process he had used in our
home galaxy, so he had to use 
trial-and-error
,
with a lot of 
downtime
 to avoid too much
error. Skippy was afraid of doing something that might cause a glitch and make
it shut down permanently, like Sculptor-Bravo was. “It is not a simple matter
of waking it up, Joe,” he confessed to me while I was eating lunch in my
office. “This thing was almost completely disconnected from its power source.
There was a scary moment when I nearly lost the connection entirely. 
It was like blowing on a fire to make it burn hotter,
but then you blow a little bit too hard and snuff out the flames, you know?”

“Yeah,” that thought made me shudder. More than
once I had heart-stopping moments like that during camping and hunting trips,
when I was trying to start a fire on a cold, rainy or snowy day. My fingers
were already stiff and cold and with wood that was wet, it was important to
keep a fire going once you got it started. Capricious winds swirling around the
fire had been my adversary then. “I know what you mean, Skippy.”

“Then I went the other way, and allowed too much
power to surge through the connection, that was almost as bad. We’re good now,
sorry if I scared you, it sure as hell scared me. I had to tell somebody about
it.”

“Skippy, you never need to tell me that you’re
doing the best you can, or that no one else could do it better.”

“Thanks. That means a lot. Working with these
wormholes has been a humbling experience, and as you know, I have no experience
with being humble.” He paused for me to make a smart remark, but I held my
tongue because I knew he was scared. “I, I,” he was having trouble thinking
what to say. “I’ll keep going. It should not be long 
now,

the network is handling most of the wake-up process now. It’s kind of weird.”

Weird is not a word I wanted to hear when we were
three hundred thousand lightyears from home. “What is weird?” I asked
cautiously.

“It’s like, the network didn’t expect this
wormhole 
to ever be
 used again, yet it
wasn’t deactivated. Like, the Elders kept it dormant for emergency use or
something. 
This is so frustrating!
 There
is so much I don’t know.”

“Yeah, but despite the best efforts they made to
keep you in the dark, you are piecing the truth together, Skippy.”

“What I want to know is, who is ‘they’? How did
these annoying restrictions get put into my programming? How did I wind up
buried in the dirt on Paradise?”

“Keep going. No one can hide the truth from
Sherlock Skippy.”

“I hope you’re right about that. Finish your
sandwich, because I’m about to instruct the wormhole to reconnect.”

“Mmkay,” I mumbled through a mouthful of turkey on
rye, gulping it down quickly. Yet, when I had picked up the last crumb of
potato chips and eaten the last slice of tomato, he hadn’t contacted me. With
nothing to do while I waited, I brought my plate back to the galley, where once
again I avoided eye contact with Anastacia the sexbot waitress.

Still no prompt from the beer can. “Hey, Skippy,
do I have time to hit the gym?”

“What? Sure, uh, whatever.” He was distracted and
that did not build my confidence. “Have fun. Don’t hurt yourself.”

I lifted weights, did a killer workout on an
exercise bike, hit the rowing machine, and took a leisurely Hollywood shower,
and still Skippy didn’t call me. With apprehension, I waited until I was
dressed again, then sat on my bed. “Skippy, what is going on?”

“Joe, I seriously do not know. The good news is,
the Sculptor-Charlie wormhole is ready. It’s open and the event horizons on
both ends are rock-solid stable.”

“And the bad news?”

“The 
other

news is not exactly bad. It is, troubling. Joe, this wormhole will not open for
me! It refused to expand the event horizons large enough for the ship to fit
through. It refused to acknowledge my authority. The damned thing demanded I
provide a freakin’ password!”

“A 
password
?”

“Well, not exactly a password. An authentication
method, but you could think of it as a password, I suppose. Pissed me off, then
it scared me.”

“Scared you because you are locked out?”

“Scared me because I’m 
not
 locked out. I had no idea what the password could be. Here is
the scary thing; while I was wracking my brain trying to think what in the 
hell
 I could use to authenticate myself to this stupid
thing, a part of me I wasn’t aware of woke up. This hidden subroutine popped
up, provided the password like it was no problem at all, then it promptly went
back into hiding. Joe, I have no idea what the 
fuck
 is going on inside my own matrix!”

“Hey, look at the bright side.” I tried to make
light of the incident. “You have a hidden talent.”

“Joe, you are not taking this seriously. This is
like you sitting down at a piano and playing a Mozart piano concerto, without
remembering you ever took lessons. No, no, wait! This is like you expertly
performing 
a difficult
 brain surgery, without
remembering ever going to medical school. Joe, unlike the randomly firing and
misfiring neurons in that sack of mush you monkeys call a brain, 
my
 matrix is supremely cataloged and
organized. Hell, I ran an exhaustive full optimization of my matrix after I
revived myself in the Roach Motel. There should not be 
anything
 in there that I am not aware of.”

“Skippy,” I tried to point out the obvious. “You 
are
 kind of absent-minded.”

“No way, dude. This is not me forgetting something
because I am distracted by more important things. There must be a part of my
matrix that is actively concealing part of myself from my consciousness. That
scares the shit out of me.”

“Damn, it scares me too. Could it be the worm? I
know it is dead, but could it have planted a subroutine in your matrix?”

“
Ugh
.
Joe, please 
think
 for a change, you
might enjoy the novelty of the experience. Why would the worm suddenly pop up
and provide a password for me?”

“Ok, yeah, that was a dumb thing to say. Forget
about it. Are we Ok to go through this wormhole? It’s not going to collapse on us
if we don’t know the secret handshake or something?”

“We are Ok to go through. After my hidden friend
provided the correct password, the local network suddenly became almost
friendly. It gave me a view through the other end, there is a star system less than
a quarter lightyear away. An orange dwarf star, with an Earth-like planet in
the Goldilocks Zone. Joe, I think this wormhole was created specifically to
provide access to that star system.”

“Sounds too good to be true. What else do you know
about this place?”

“Not much, we’ll run a sensor scan after we go
through the wormhole. I would say ‘duh’, but you know that is kind of implied.”

“Hey, I meant, does this star system have a big
stealth field around it, or a pack of killer Guardians or Sentinels? 
Duh
.”

“Oh, shit. I hadn’t thought about that. Why are
you always such a buzzkill, Joe?”

“Because of my experience with you, that’s why.
This system is obviously important to the Elders, so maybe they protected it.
Can we send an unmanned dropship through first, to see what its sensors pick
up?”

“We could. I hate to admit it, but that would be a
good idea.”

 

We sent a dropship through the wormhole. My
preference was to send a lower-tech Kristang Dragon because that type of ship
would not be a big loss if it couldn’t come back, but Skippy insisted we send a
Thuranin Falcon because it had much better sensors. “There is no stealth field
in that system, Joe, and I pinged for both Guardians and Sentinels-”

“You 
what
?
Damn it, didn’t you learn your lesson in the Roach Motel? You can’t just drop
into a star system and-”

“Relax, dude. We’re on the other side of a wormhole
I can shut down like,” his avatar snapped its fingers with an impressively loud
‘pop’, “that. Any sign of trouble from the other end, I close the wormhole and
all we’ve lost is a dropship.”

“Why do you insist on looking for trouble?”

“Joe, think about it. Would you rather find out if
there is a Sentinel out there while the ship is on 
this
 side of the wormhole, or after we go through?”

“You’re right. I still wish you would warn me when
you’re about to do something risky like that?”

“How did you 
think

I was going to determine if that system contains Sentinels or Guardians? They
are normally in another spacetime.”

“Sorry, Skippy, I-”

“Wow, this is the thanks I get-”

“I 
said

I was sorry.”

“Hey!” Desai called from the CIC and rapped on the
glass with knuckles to get our attention. “You two argue like an old married
couple. Can we focus, please? Sir?”

“She has a good point, Skippy. What 
did
 you find out there?”

“Hmmf,” the beer can 
sniffed
,
annoyed. “I found an orange dwarf star that is relatively young compared to
most stars in this little galaxy. That system has two unremarkable worthless
planets, plus a habitable planet in the Goldilocks zone. I will need more time,
and the 
Dutchman
’s full sensor suite
before I can get a complete picture, but I do not immediately see anything
unusual or even notable. At first glance, there do not appear to be any missing
planets, no planets in funky orbits or too close to the star. It looks rather,
ordinary, actually. Kind of disappointing,” he added with a sigh.

“Ordinary is good. Someplace unremarkable is 
exactly
 what we want for a beta site.”

“Once again, it would be useful for you to 
think
, Joe. The Elders clearly set up
this wormhole just to provide access to this star system. There is absolutely
nothing else of interest within four hundred and eight lightyears. The Elders
protected this wormhole, 
only
 this
wormhole that we know of, with a freakin’ password. To tell the truth, I
thought there 
would
 be Guardians or
Sentinels there. Whatever is in that system, the Elders did not want anyone
screwing with it, so I am surprised they did not protect the place with at
least a Sentinel.”

The thought of a Sentinel lurking on the other
side of the wormhole made me shudder. The Sentinel in the Roach Motel had been
soul-shakingly scary, and that had only been a dead fragment. Its creepy, dark
fractal surface had awakened some ancient instinct inside me that feared
spiders and crawling insects and anything that slithered. “Maybe the Elders
thought they didn’t need extra protection. That star system is three hundred
thousand lightyears from the Milky Way, with the only access being a
super-wormhole that was dormant, plus a dormant local wormhole that requires a password.
Or, hey, maybe this is a test! Anyone who gets there deserves, uh, whatever is
there, you know?”

“Joe, I do not think there is a box of treasure
waiting for you to pick it up.”

“Whatever. How about we pull the dropship back,” a
glance at the counter showed the wormhole would shut down by itself within
seven minutes. “Then after you reopen the thing, we send the dropship through
again, with you inside it?”

“What? No way, Jose. If there is anything scary or
dangerous over there, then 
you
 should
go first. This beta site thing is for 
you

monkeys,
 
I

don’t need it.”

 

We recalled the dropship, and after an hour of
fruitless discussion, we took the ship through the wormhole. We didn’t have
much 
of a choice
. It was either go
through that wormhole, or go home and tell the UN that the whole mission had
been a waste of time. Not even the Stooges wanted to quit at that point. Simms,
Smythe and the entire command team had been in favor of going through the
wormhole, I was the only person with serious reservations. Or, I was the only
person who openly expressed misgivings about exploring that star system. The
whole situation seemed way too convenient, too tempting. It just had to be a
set-up, a way to lure ships in so they could be trapped or destroyed. To check
my theory, after we went through the wormhole the first time, I ordered the
ship to turn around and go back through to the other side. The whole time the 
Flying Dutchman
 was recovering from the
distortion effects of passing through the event horizon, making a painfully
slow turn and then approaching the wormhole, I expected the event horizon to
wink out, trapping us forever. Or, I expected Guardians or 
Sentinels

or some other terrible danger Skippy had not bothered to mention, would pop
into our lowly local spacetime and tear the ship apart. When nothing bad
happened, nothing happened at all, I felt foolish. That was totally Ok with me.
There were a lot of emotions I could have felt after taking the risk of going
through a wormhole that seemed like an obvious trap; regret and terror being at
the top of the list. Feeling foolish was a small price to pay for safety, or at
least the temporary illusion of safety. During our time in that star system, I
felt foolish a lot, because I kept waiting for something bad to happen. It got
to the point where Desai had to counsel me to keep my fears to myself, because
my constant worrying was hurting the crew’s morale.

We already had named one planet ‘Gingerbread’, and
I resisted my urge to name the place something that reflected my fears it might
be a trap. The UN would give the planet an official name if they decided to
accept the place as a beta site. We held a contest to give the planet a
temporary name, and there were a dozen candidates, mostly from mythologies of
the various cultures of our crew. After three rounds of voting, we nicknamed
the planet ‘Avalon’, the mythical home of King Arthur. Skippy thought that was
appropriate. “To become king, young Arthur had to pull a sword from a stone,
Joe. To get here, I had to pull a password out of my 
ass
. 
Same
 thing,” he
snickered. “Plus, like Arthur, I am a figure of mythical awesomeness.”

“I totally agree, Skippy.”

“Huh? Oh, I expected you to argue with me.”

“Nope. Your awesomeness is 
entirely
 mythical,” I said with a wink toward Desai.

“Well, it is gratifying that you have finally-
Hey! You 
jerk
!”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWELVE

 

To make for a better story, I wish I could say
that Avalon was a dangerous trap, and that we barely escaped with our lives by
using courage and good old-fashioned monkey cleverness. Or that it was not a
trap, and we found an enormous amount of valuable Elder artifacts, in the
abandoned ruins of their fabulous cities scattered across the surface. Or even
that the planet was a primitive jungle filled with poisonous reptiles,
carnivorous plants and giant, blood-thirsty dinosaurs. It wasn’t any of those
things. Avalon is a nice enough place. Free oxygen in the atmosphere was slightly
lower than on Earth, with sea-level air pressure that was greater so 
it
 kind of evened out. Gravity was just about perfect at
only three percent greater than normal, and the climate was warmer overall.
Though the star was cooler than Earth’s Sun, Avalon orbited closer to its star
and a greenhouse effect trapped heat in the lower level of the atmosphere,
which is called the troposphere. Don’t ask how I remembered that nerdy fact,
because I don’t know.

The only interesting or unusual thing about Avalon
was that it had a ring. Not a big, thick ring like Saturn. This ring was like
the fuzzy one around Neptune in our home solar system, except Avalon’s ring was
bright and shiny because it was made mostly of water ice. Skippy had no clue
how it had gotten there, and he needed more time to study it. From the ground,
it would create a thin line across the sky, something that I couldn’t wait to
see. The only moons Avalon had 
were
 two small rocks,
one orbiting inside and one outside the ring. Those types of moons were called
‘shepherds’ because their gravity kept the ring from drifting apart. Again,
Skippy had no idea how the pair of moons got there, because the moons were made
of rock instead of ice.

Anyway, the Commissioners gave permission for a
small initial survey team to go down to the surface, and we prepped dropships
for the mission.

 

After nine days, we finally got an All-Clear from
the initial ground survey team. That was three days longer than the official schedule
called for, but everything on this mission had taken longer than expected. No,
technically it was not an All-Clear, because that would have required a bunch
of squabbling scientists to agree on making a judgment call. What we got was a
very reluctant and tentative ‘
shmaybe
’,
which pissed Skippy off, because he wanted to reserve the issuance of
maddeningly vague answers for himself.

On a conference call, I was in my office, squeezed
in with Desai, Smythe and three of the science team. It was a tight fit, but if
I conducted the call from the 
Dutchman
’s
big conference room, I would have been obligated to invite the four
Commissioners, and that was the last thing I wanted. The call was merely a
regular evening check-in, although Chang had given me a heads-up that this call
would be important. 

After greetings and pleasantries, I got right to
the point. “Colonel Chang, when will the survey team have enough information to
decide if we can go out onto the surface, without being sealed up in suits?”

The ground team had been living in sealed
shelters, going in and out through airlocks which bombarded their suits with
harsh ultraviolet radiation, then sprayed them with a caustic chemical bath
that was embedded with nanomachines to hunt for and destroy any native nasties
that might be harmful. The mud was the biggest problem, people returning from
the field had to stand on a platform and scrub their gloves, legs and boots off
before proceeding into the airlock. The procedure slowed down the survey
progress, and was really not necessary. Skippy had declared on Day Two that the
life on Avalon was incompatible with human biology. Their microscopic critters
could not infect us, and the critters we inevitably brought to that world,
could not infect them.

That incompatibility did not relieve us of one
very serious
 responsibility,
 that the
science team and Commissioners had debated about for a whole freakin’ day after
the 
Dutchman
 establish a stable
orbit. It was an important argument, a moral issue that I agreed was vital. 
But,
 it was also a subject that had already been debated ad 
nauseum
 by the United Nations and various
scientific organizations back on Earth. The issue was: did we have a right to
contaminate an alien biosphere?

Our people on the surface wore suits, unless they
were inside the shelters. The suits were decontaminated as best we could, in
the airlocks before they stepped out of the dropships that brought them down from
orbit. But, all of our best precautions could not completely prevent
contamination of Avalon by microorganisms from Earth. The scorching entry in
the atmosphere heated the exterior of the dropships past the point where
bacteria was 
incinerated
 and viruses
dissolved. 
But,
 there were nooks and crannies even on
the outside of dropships, where microscopic critters could and would survive. Like,
on the inside of landing gear doors, or inspection hatches. Plus, all the gear
we had loaded into the dropships had 
a fine

dusting of human skin cells, bacteria, viruses and even tiny insects. There was
no way we could decontaminate every piece of equipment, and the heat required
to kill all microorganisms would have ruined some of the equipment.

Part of the problem with risking contamination
were the dropships themselves. The birds we flew were built by the Kristang,
Thuranin and Maxolhx, none of whom had any moral issues about destroying alien
biospheres. As a result, their airlocks were designed to prevent bringing
contaminants 
into
 a dropship, not to
worry about letting potentially dangerous organisms loose upon an unknown
world. The airlocks normally did not run a decon cycle when a person was going
out, Skippy had to reprogram and test them all, and he warned the supply of
chemicals aboard each ship was limited. So, it was inevitable that, once the
ground team popped the rear ramp on our one big Condor dropship to unload
equipment, we were releasing a cloud of tiny critters on a world where they had
no natural enemies, nothing to stop them from spreading across the landscape.

Why did we worry so much about contaminating
Avalon, when we humans had already stepped on so many other alien worlds? We
had not been concerned about contaminating Newark, for example. The answer was,
every other world we had been on, including Newark, was already contaminated
before we landed. A Kristang scavenger group had flown, driven and walked all
over Newark long before we set down there. Plus, on Newark, we didn’t have a
choice; it was either try to survive down there, or die in space.

Avalon was different. As far as we knew, no one
else had ever landed there. Despite an Elder wormhole being located
conveniently nearby, Skippy saw no evidence the Elders had ever bothered to set
foot on the planet. He had no idea why the Elders had bothered to set a
wormhole in that part of the Universe, and that lack of knowledge bothered both
him and me.

Anyway, the UN had given us very specific
guidelines to follow about landing on a potential beta world. The science team,
not me or the Commissioners, had the authority to decide whether a world was
considered safe for survey teams to venture out in the open. The problem there
was the definition of ‘safe’. Few things in the Universe could be completely safe,
and alien worlds were not on that list.

The survey team on the surface, sixteen scientists
of various disciplines from geologists to chemists to paleontologists and all
types of biologists, could not agree on anything. I tried to cut through the
bullshit. “Let me ask a question,” I waved my arms so people on the other side
of the video feed would stop talking. “I have dozens of other scientists up
here, eager to get onto the surface. If I replaced the sixteen of you with
sixteen others from up here, would I get a straight answer?”

“Colonel,” one of the scientists sputtered
indignantly, I think he was a biologist, based on the color of his nametag.
“Pressure tactics like that are not helpful. Of course the people aboard the 
Dutchman
 would be eager to come down
to-”

“Are you suggesting they would compromise their
scientific integrity?” I asked. The answer to that question was clear. Most of
the people stuck aboard the 
Dutchman

would willingly be, let’s say ‘
flexible
’,
for the greatest opportunity of their lives.

“It is not that simple,” the biologist rubbed his
temples while he spoke. Clearly, I wasn’t the only person with a headache. “We
must consider-”

Desai interrupted him. “Colonel Chang, I assume 
you
 have already heard all the
arguments?”

“Indeed,” Chang replied with a weary sigh. He
looked like he was second-guessing his decision to sign up for the beta site
mission.

“Excellent.” She looked at me, and I nodded for
her to continue. “Could you 
summarize

the issues?” She asked, with an emphasis on 
summarize
.

Chang scooched his chair forward a few inches,
closer to the video camera. “To use American military slang,” he winked at me,
“I shall BLUF this for you.” He meant Bottom Line Up Front, get to the heart of
the matter right away, with the details later. “This world is very likely safe
for human habitation.” There were loud and angry voices behind him, and I heard
Simms demanding silence. Few people were willing to argue with her, because she
controlled access to all the equipment on the surface. “Thank you,” Chang
continued as if he had not been interrupted. “The life here is roughly
equivalent to the middle to late Devonian Period on Earth, with-”

“Very, 
very

roughly,” a male voice said.

“That is an oversimplified comparison,” argued a
female voice. “The biota here is-”

“
OK
!” I
shouted. “The next person who opens their mouth, and who is not named Chang
Kong, will be on the first dropship back up here. Is that clear? Don’t answer
me, just keep quiet and let Colonel Chang talk. You will have plenty of time to
argue with the Commissioners.”

Chang paused for a second, then was satisfied the
protests had settled down to inaudible grumbling. “There are ferns and shrubs
here, but no trees or flowering plants,” he explained, and I nodded.
  
I remembered that the native life on Paradise
had not yet produced flying insects before the first Kristang landed there.
That was a problem for us back when I was in charge of planting potatoes.
Without the right kind of flying insects, we had to pollinate many plants by
ourselves. Soldiers had to walk around with tools that looked like big Q-tips
or feather dusters, manually transferring pollen from one plant another. That
had been a tough sell for me as a new publicity-stunt colonel, asking soldiers
to exchange their rifles for Q-tips. By now, the Ruhar built tiny drones to
pollinate plants, making the task much easier.

Chang continued. “The biology here is not
compatible with Earth life, so it poses little risk to us. There are large
predators in the oceans, none on land. The main risk the science team is
concerned with is in the medium term, not currently.”

That puzzled me. “How can that be?” I expected
that conditions on the surface would get better and more hospitable to humans,
the longer we were there.

“As you know, the level of free oxygen in the air
here is eight percent less than Earth-normal. 
The
sea-level air pressure is higher, so it will not be difficult for us to
breathe.
 The carbon dioxide is thirty-two percent higher, which is not yet
toxic to humans. The problem, or 
potential

problem, is that recently the level of oxygen has been rising rapidly, and carbon
dioxide levels have been falling dramatically. By ‘recent’, I mean,” he nearly
rolled his eyes, “on a geological timescale.”

“More oxygen will be 
better
 for us, right?” I mused slowly, not understanding why that
could be a problem.

Before I could ask the obvious question, Chang
answered. “The plants on land here are pulling carbon dioxide out of the
atmosphere, that is the where the free oxygen comes from. The bottom line, Sir,
is this process is continuing, and intensifying. The team here believes the
problem will get worse once plants from Earth are established here, because
they are more advanced and could grow rapidly. The level of CO2 in the air
could crash, leading to an ice age here. Something similar may have happened on
Earth in the Devonian Period, during the,” he scrunched up his face, trying to
remember the details. “Kellwasser and Hangenberg Events?”

I looked at Desai, puzzled. For all I knew, the
Kellwasser Event was a craft beer festival
.
Which
 made my stupid brain focus on one thought: Mm, 
beeeeeer
.

How the hell was I in command of a starship?

I asked the obvious question. “What does Skippy
think about all this?”

“What
 I

think,” his avatar shimmered into existence on my desk. “Is that foolish
monkeys should focus on surviving the next two hundred years, before you worry
about the next two hundred thousand. Atmospheric cooling will eventually be an
issue, but that can be dealt with by mining asteroids here to create mirrors
you could place in orbit. Chang is right, there is no reason you monkeys should
not be able to scamper around down there. You have already gotten the place
filthy with your microbes, and none of the native life is hazardous to you.
Let’s get this over with and get back to Earth, so your high-ranking morons can
wring their hands and delay making a decision. Stupid monkeys,” he muttered
under his breath.

 

 

The Commissioners waited another two freakin’ 
days
 before clearing the remainder of
the science team to drop to the surface. In my opinion, the Commissioners were
all eager to be down there, and they couldn’t justify going before they cleared
the people who would be doing the actual work. Before we let a bunch of
distracted civilians go scampering around down there, I sent the rest of
Giraud’s security team to join him, then waited until Chang and Simms declared the
little camp was ready to accommodate more people.

I was in the docking bay, walking around the
dropship for a pre-flight check. Most of the little Dragon-A was stuffed with
supplies, leaving room only for two pilots and two passengers. I would be pilot
in command, with Reed acting as 
copilot
.
I’m sure she thought of this as a babysitting assignment, but I am the
commander and I needed stick time to maintain proficiency. She got to fly all
the freakin’ time.

Smythe walked into the docking bay, carrying a
heavy duffel bag, followed by Doctor Friedlander who was carrying a heavy
plastic box. When I heard Friedlander had accepted an offer to join the beta
site survey team, I was thrilled. Then he told me he signed up only because the
families of survey team members would have priority for moving to the beta
site, if that became necessary. He explained that his time with the Merry Band
of Pirates had taught him that if bad shit could happen, it would. So, he now
had an insurance policy for his family.

They set their burdens down near the rear ramp,
and Smythe ducked under the wing to speak with me. “That’s the last of it,
Sir.”

I walked over and looked at the items they had
brought, then at the rear compartment of the Dragon. The ship was already
stuffed full, we would have 
to carefully close
the ramp
, and somehow find room for the extra gear in the forward
passenger cabin. Safety protocol required leaving a passage from the cockpit to
the side door, so we had to be careful how we jammed the gear in. “We’ll make
it fit. Suit up, we should be leaving in about,” I glanced at my zPhone. “Forty
minutes.” The 
Dutchman
’s orbit meant
that leaving earlier would burn a whole lot more fuel to get to the landing
site, and we had to be careful about our fuel supply. We had to be careful
about all of our supplies. That morning, the status report from Simms had
warned we had already consumed seventeen percent more of vital items than
expected.

“Very good, Sir,” Smythe replied. “Doctor?” he
gestured to Friedlander.

“Um, Colonel Bishop?” Friedlander looked
uncomfortable. “It’s just the four of us going down to the surface?”

“On this trip, yes,” I closed an inspection panel
and turned to him. “Why?”

He pointed to me, Smythe, Reed and then himself.
“Kirk, Spock, McCoy and ‘
Ensign
 
Rickie
’ beam down to a planet. One of
them isn’t coming back,” he shook his head.

I laughed. “I can assure you, Doctor, there are no
giant lizards down there to eat you. Besides, you’re not Ensign Rickie, you are
the Special Guest Star for this week’s episode.”

“Right,” he cocked his head at me. “That only
means my death is more dramatic and doesn’t happen off-camera.”

“Would it help,” I pointed at him, “if you weren’t
wearing a 
red
 shirt?”

He looked down at his University of Virginia
shirt, then sheepishly over at me. The shirt was more orange than red, but he
got the message. Holding up an index finger, he took a step back toward the
door. “I’ll be 
right
 back.”

 

 

I went down to the surface, and got a tour by the
science team. To tell you the truth, Avalon could have been any of many other
habitable planets, they looked similar to me. Except for a slight orange tint
to the light when the star was setting over the horizon, and the thin line of
the icy ring arcing across the sky, it could have been Paradise. Oh, except
Paradise had real trees, not just oversized ferns. All I knew for sure was, it
was an alien world. The plant and animal life on Avalon was different from
anything I remember from my home planet. One thing we did not see was any
evidence intelligent life had evolved there, or had even started to evolve. One
of our biologists remarked something about a theory that ancient humans had
nearly gone extinct a long time ago, because of a ‘genetic bottleneck’, when
the early human population was so small there was a dangerously low level of
genetic variation. I remembered that during our time on Newark, a biologist had
said something about the Toba supervolcano blowing up thousands of years ago
and threatening the few groups of humans huddled in Africa at the time. Both
Skippy and the new biologist explained patiently to me that the Toba theory had
been discredited, and they made me feel like a fool for mentioning it. I should
stop talking about stuff I read on Wikipedia.

So, Avalon was a nice place, full of giant ferns,
no dangerous predators and no annoying insects like mosquitos. Whoopee freakin’
do. Maybe I was jaded from having landed on so many planets already. I wasn’t
the only one, Simms and Smythe had begun to look bored after the first week.
The science team, 
of
 course, were running
around like giddy children. Seriously. I saw one of our biologists, a big burly
Ukrainian guy with a wild beard and even wilder tattoos, go scampering across a
meadow, throwing up his arms and whooping with delight. For a moment, I thought
he had been stung by a native critter or some animal had crawled up his pants
leg, then I realized he was merely overcome by happiness.

It was nice to see someone getting blissfully
excited. I wish I felt that way, wished I 
could

feel that way. Maybe I had spent too many years worried about pissed-off aliens
wiping out humanity. Seeing that guy so happy made me angry, until I understood
the problem was with me, not him. Humanity deserved to be happy like that,
rather than constantly looking at the sky in fear. That was the whole point of setting
up a beta site, a place where humans could live and even flourish free from
fear of murderous aliens.

To my own surprise, I pulled my T-shirt off and
ran across the meadow with the biologist, jumping and whooping and making a
fool of myself. Damn it, I 
deserved
 a
chance to cut loose and enjoy myself. What is that saying? Dance like no one is

looking?
 That is good advice.

 

I came out of the tent we were using for an office
until a shelter was set up, and saw that Chang was standing away from the camp,
looking at a stream that flowed to the east. Dropships had lifted off to take survey
teams to do whatever they did. Looking at rocks and algae, something like that.

“Eww,” I sniffed as I walked up to Chang. It had
rained that morning, and the prevailing wind was bringing a scent like wet gym
socks. That was the giant ferns, or primitive lifeforms like that. “We will
have to keep that smell out of the sales brochures about this place.”

He grinned back at me. “Setting up a beta site was
a good idea. A good backup.” Then he lost the grin. “In case we lose Earth
eventually.”

“You want the truth? All this,” I waved my arm
around the vista of green plant life around us. “Wasn’t a backup plan. It 
was
 the plan.”

“Joe?” He lifted an eyebrow. It was still weird
hearing him say my first name. It was also nice, because now I had a peer I
could talk freely with.

“During our Renegade mission, I told Simms that
setting up a beta site was a backup plan, but really, it was our 
only
 realistic plan, right up to the
last minute,” I admitted. “All the crazy shit we through back then was for
nothing, unless we had a way to knock out those two cruisers. Until I
remembered what Skippy told us about overlapping wormholes, when we were in the
Roach Motel, I had given up on stopping those ships.”

That drew a smile back onto his face. “Skippy
warned us 
never to allow
 wormholes to
overlap. Only you,” he clapped me on the shoulder, “would think 
doing
 that was a 
good
 idea.”

“It almost wasn’t,” I reminded him. “You read our
mission report?”

“I did. You mean because the 
Dutchman
 was nearly lost? Joe, it 
wasn’t
. Back, oh, I don’t know when it was. You were having an
argument with someone about a football game. Your American type of football,
not the real kind that is actually played with feet. The other guy said his
team should have won the game if this or that had happened, and you said all
that matters is the scoreboard at the end of the game.”

“I hear you,” I knew he was trying to boost my
confidence. “We got lucky,” I shrugged, and threw a stone into the stream.

“No,” he shook his head emphatically. “That’s not
true.”

“Because Skippy says there is no such thing as
luck?”

“Because if that 
is
 true, the Merry Band of Pirates has gotten lucky a lot. The
string of successes we’ve had, 
you

have had, can’t be luck. Unless someone up there,” he looked at the sky. “Has
put a thumb on the scale and been helping us all along.” He was not talking
about Skippy.

“Thanks, Kong,” I took a deep breath. The wet
socks smell was fading as the local sun dried out the landscape.

“You realize the only problem with using this
world as a safe haven?”

Was he making a joke? I couldn’t 
tell
. There were a whole lot of things that
could be a problem with Avalon, but none of them were major issues. “What’s
that?” I asked.

“Your idea to set up a beta site is that aliens 
can’t
 get here, even if they discover
the location. They can’t get here because-”

He didn’t need to finish. “Ah, shit. Yeah. I
assumed they couldn’t get here, because only an Elder AI can manipulate
wormholes.”

“Now we know, or think we know, that the 
Rindhalu
 and possibly the Maxolhx also have
Elder AIs.”

“That isn’t the worst part. Hell, Skippy just
showed the network how to connect way out here. All another AI needs to do, is
ask the network what it already did. 
Shit
!”
I threw another rock, this time as hard and fast as I could. “I didn’t think
this through, and now I’ve made the situation 
worse
.”

“We don’t know that,” he said quietly. “We don’t
know there are any Elder AIs out there. All we know are rumors, and that the 
spiders
 used to have some sort of AI. Their AI
might have been destroyed by a computer worm, like the one that attacked
Skippy. We don’t 
know
. All we know
is, anything Skippy can do, another AI might be able to do.”

“I’m not sure about that.” I told him what Skippy
had said, about how he could now do things he had not been programmed to do.
“Maybe other AIs don’t have the full range of awesomeness that Skippy has.”

“I hope so.” He looked down at the swift-flowing
stream, swelled by that morning’s rain. “Because the UN might abandon the beta
site effort, if we’re not safe out here. We also have to,” he took a breath and
looked up at the sky before continuing. “Consider that, someday, we might need
to hunt down those other AIs and eliminate them. If they are a threat,” he
added hastily, knowing Skippy was listening to us.

“And if we 
can
.
Damn it, this could move up the timetable?”

“Timetable?”

“For setting up a colony here. No matter what we
do, in a 
couple
 hundred years, aliens
will learn that there are no Kristang on Earth. We have until then to bring
people here.”

“Will timing matter, if the bad guys can get
here?”

“They might not be able to. Skippy told me there
might be a way to disable the super-duty wormhole on this end. Shut it down
permanently, like, not even the network could bring it back online. Disconnect
it from its power source, something like that. We might be able to burn the bridge
behind us. Ah, crap. This was starting out to be a 
nice
 day.”

“Sorry I dumped that on you.”

“I’d rather think about it now, than have the UN
hit me with it later. Hey, I found a cooler of beer in the supplies.”

“If you are talking about what is in the red
cooler, that came out of a goat, it’s not beer. Come with me, Joe,” he slapped
me on the shoulder again. “I’ll show you what real beer is.”

“Chinese beer? Did it come out of a 
yak
?”

 

 

Nine weeks after landing on Avalon, it was
decision time, so I called the science team together under a big tent we set up
under tall dark ferns at the edge of a meadow. It was a nice day, a welcome
break after two solid days of rain and drizzle. “We need to head back, the UN
is expecting 
us
 and we don’t want to be overdue. You
have all submitted initial reports about this planet.” I avoided using the
temporary name ‘Avalon’ because part of the team resented that Eurocentric
Anglo-Saxon name, or some politically correct bullshit I didn’t care about. The
UN would name the place when we got home. Personally, I thought something like
“Joe’s World’ or ‘Bishopville’ would be a 
great

name, but I wouldn’t get a vote. “I have skimmed the highlights of the reports.
Please,” I waved a hand to forestall a lot of 
discussion

that simply was not needed. “All I need is a show of hands. Who is in favor of
this planet being designated as at least a potential beta site?”

Every hand went up.

“Outstanding. Next, does anyone have reservations
about selecting this site?” Oh, crap. Every hand went up again, and everyone
wanted to talk. “Wait! People, please. Let’s make this simple. Who would 
not
 like to come back here to conduct
further studies and help set up a colony?” A few hesitant hands were partly
raised, with those people glancing around to see who supported them. “Keep this
in mind,” I added, “those who object will 
not

be returning to this world.” Slowly, all the hands went down. “Now we’re
getting somewhere,” I grinned with relief. “You will all have an opportunity to
speak with the Commissioners privately to express your concerns
. A
 
limited

amount of time. Or you can talk 
with

Skippy and he can summarize your views to them, they might prefer that.
Remember, the final decision rests not with me or the Commissioners, or any of
us here, it will be reviewed and voted on by the full United Nations.” That was
not technically true, as the UN Security Council had set up a special
subcommittee to study the beta site issue. I am sure that long after the beta
site is fully populated, that committee will still have a generous budget to
‘study’ the issue, and much of that money will be stolen by officials in tiny
countries you never heard of.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTEEN

 

“That’s it?” I asked Skippy, after he spent three
days exhaustively reviewing data from the ship’s sensors and the survey teams
on the ground, plus probes we had sent out to map the star system. The science
team had voted in favor of Avalon being considered for a beta site, but I wanted
Skippy’s opinion. He was a lot smarter than any group of monkeys.

“Yup,” he replied.

“Something more detailed than ‘yup’ would be
helpful, please.”

“What can I say, Joe? Avalon is the idyllic
vacation spot of the Sculptor dwarf galaxy. Unless you monkeys do something
especially stupid down there, like 
getting

eaten by a bear, it will be a great place to live.”

He was joking about bears. There were no bear-like
predators, nor were there animals like lions and tigers, oh my! Avalon did not
have the whole Wizard of Oz scary forest thing going on, unless you considered
giant ferns to be a forest. There appeared to be no dangerous animals on land, so
accidents and stupidity would be the greatest danger to settlers. Colonists on
Avalon would have a security team to defend them and miniature satellites to
warn of approaching danger, though there sure didn’t look like there was any
danger posed by the native life. For certain, someone was bound to do something
stupid, just because we are humans and we can be stubborn and reckless. The
type of people attracted to being settlers at the beta site would tend to be
those who like adventure, so they would be more likely than normal to get into
trouble because they seek the excitement of getting into trouble, but that would
not be my problem. “Yeah, I’m not worried about bears. I’m not worried about
anything that threatens individual 
people,
 my concern
is anything that might threaten the entire colony. You don’t see anything like
that?”

“Nope. Since you are going to ask for me for more
details, a full report of my analysis to date is available on your tablet right
now. Since I know you won’t bother to read it, I’ll cover the highlights for
you.”

As Skippy is fond of saying, 
ugh
. Professor Nerdnik went on for an hour with geeky details no
one could possibly care about- Scratch that. There were lots of people who
cared about the geeky details, people who were passionate about the geeky
details. Our entire science team was like that, and God bless them for all the
long hours and hard work they did learning all that stuff. We were lucky to
have those people aboard the ship. “Skippy,” I interrupted him after a yawn
that nearly dislocated my jaw. “Look, you could go on for hours, listing one by
one how you didn’t find any threats in airborne pathogens, or in the animal
life down there, and how Avalon’s orbit is stable and how plate tectonics
create just enough volcanos to renew the surface soil, but not enough to
threaten life with toxic gases. Let’s make this easy on me, and easy on you
since I know you’ve been struggling to dumb this down for me-”

“
Ugh
.
You have 
no
 idea. It’s like I’m
trying to explain multi-variable calculus to you, and I am limited to the level
of ‘One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish’.”

“Hey! That’s a good book.”

“
Yes it is
, Joey. Maybe
someday you will be able to read it all by yourself,” he said in a
condescending Sesame Street voice. “Stupid monkey,” he muttered to himself.

“How about this to make it easy; did you find
anything unusual?”

“Define ‘unusual’. I’ve never seen this planet
before. Never seen this 
galaxy
 before,
that I know of.”

Sometimes talking with Skippy was like talking to
a two-year-old. “Is there anything in the sensor data that you found
interesting?”

“Oh. 
Now

you asked the right question. Yes, I found several things that interested me
enough to dig deeper into the details. First, my initial assessment was wrong,
slightly. 
I
 was not wrong, of course,
that is impossible. The data I was using was incomplete.”

“Uh huh. What was the data wrong about?”

“There 
is

a planet missing from the star system. Not missing, exactly, I do know where it
went.”

“Did it win a fabulous vacation cruise?”

“No.”

“Is its face on a milk carton?”

“No! 
You
 dumdum. A gas
giant planet was towed into an orbit close to the star.”

“A gas giant?” My laptop had a chart of the
system, I pulled up that file and studied it. There were two gas giant planets,
each slightly smaller than Saturn and neither of them had a cool ring, which I
found disappointing. We came all the way out to that dwarf galaxy, and there
wasn’t even a ring to look at? That sucked. “The planet they towed, where did
it originally orbit? How big was it?”

“Well, Joe,” he snickered, having to pause while
he laughed at his own joke. “It was,” he giggled again. “It was as big as 
your anus
.”

“Oh,” my face got beet red. “Very funny, you
jackass.”

“Seriously, it was roughly the size of the planet
Neptune.”

“This planet, is there a threat to us because it
went missing, or did the Elders tow it inward so its hydrogen could stretch out
the time the star is in its main sequence?”

“You call 
me

a jackass? Yes, 
you
 big dope, they sacrificed that
planet to give the star a longer useful life. Thank you 
so
 much for spoiling my surprise. Where did you learn 
sciency
 stuff like that?”

“I paid attention, when you told me the Elders did
the same thing in the Roach Motel system. Plus, I looked up info about it and
asked Friedlander about it.”

“Doctor Friedlander, hee hee. I like his jokes.”

“Me too. Ok, so the Elders used up a gassy planet
to make the local star last longer. Why did they do that? Did they want to get
a 
thirty-million-year
 mortgage, instead
of a 
fifteen-million-year
 loan?”

“Ugh, you are such an idiot. How the hell should I
know why they did it? The odd thing about them going through all that trouble
is that, other than that one planet missing, there is only one other sign that the
Elders were ever here.”

I made a guess. “Is this sign a crude note
scrawled on a bathroom wall like ‘For a good time, call’-”

“
No
! The
sign is that Avalon doesn’t have enough water. It is complicated and way over 
your
 head, but basically the planet
should have so much water, that the surface would be drowned in an ocean of ice
that is many kilometers thick. 
That

is why Avalon has a pretty, shiny ring, Joe. The Elders must have used mass-drivers
to launch some of the excess water into orbit, and boiled off a lot of the
rest. Eighty percent of the surface is still ocean, but 
land
 is exposed, and the oxygen-carbon cycle creates enough of a
greenhouse effect that- Oh, why am I explaining this to 
you
? Anyway, other than a missing gas giant planet, and Avalon’s
lack of water, there is no sign the Elders were ever here.”

“None? No sign at
all?”

“That’s what I said, dumdum. There aren’t any artificial
satellites, if you don’t count the ice in the ring. Huh. That explains
something.”

“What?”

“The shepherd moons. The Elders must have towed a
pair of asteroids into orbit, and set them up to prevent the ice ring from
falling apart.”

“Why would they do that?”

“They would do it for the purpose of preventing
the ice from eventually falling back down onto the planet, Joe. As to why they
would care, I have no idea. They apparently never stayed very long down there,
if they landed at all. There are no ruins on the surface. No structures below
the surface either, nothing like what we found on Gingerbread. Neither of the
two remaining gas giant planets 
have
 any
facilities in orbit, or on any of the moons there, and I looked very carefully.
Because of what we found, or didn’t find, at other star systems with an Elder
presence, I looked for signs of Elder sites that had been destroyed or removed.
Nothing. Zippy. Zero. I didn’t find anything.”

“That makes no sense, Skippy. Why did the Elders
come all the way out here, and go through all the trouble of stretching out the
life of the star, plus make the surface of Avalon habitable for land-based
organisms, if they didn’t use this star system for some useful purpose?”

“How the hell do I know, Joe? The Elders were
immensely powerful, creating wormholes to get here might not have been any big
deal to them. Maybe they came here just to get a good view of the Milky Way
galaxy, and they landed on this planet for a picnic.”

“Then why lock the local wormhole with a
password?”

“Again, I have no idea. Maybe after they went back
through the wormhole, one of the Elders realized he lost his car keys during
the picnic, and the others didn’t want to go all the way back to get the keys.
They locked the wormhole so nobody could steal the keys.”

“I’m trying to be serious, Skippy.”

“I am trying to be serious, too. You are
speculating on the motives of a species as far beyond you, as you are to
bacteria.”

“Ok, fine. The Elders
didn’t leave any sign of their presence here-”

“Not 
no

sign, Joe. There is 
the ring
. And a
missing planet. More importantly, there is that password-locked wormhole. I’m
going to get myself in trouble by saying this but, if the Elders did not want
me to find something here, then logically I would not see it.”

“I guess that makes sense. They would know how to
conceal something from you.”

“That, plus something even worse. There could be
something subtle, or even obvious in the sensor data, but a hidden subroutine
in my matrix could be concealing the data from my conscious self.”

“That password thing is really bothering you.”

“Yes! There is a part of me I did not know about.
What else is in my matrix that I am not aware of? Wouldn’t you be upset?”

“Upset? If that happened to me, I would be curled
up in a ball, sucking my thumb and crying for my mommy,” I admitted. “I don’t
know how you keep going, except you are stronger than me.”

“Oh. Hmm, you missed a golden opportunity to
insult me. I expected you to-”

“Sometimes when a buddy is hurting, you just have
to listen.”

“Gosh. That was 
nice
. I guess I have a lot to learn about being a good friend. Uh,
this is kind of awkward. You don’t want us to hug it out, do you?”

“Uh, no. Besides, there are 
hundreds
 of other things for me to insult you about.” While I
wanted to support Skippy, the mushiness was too much for me.

“You are 
such

an asshole, Joe.”

“I love you, too, Skippy. Back to the subject, is
there anything else interesting, other than not finding many signs of the
Elders being here?”

“Hmmm, let me think. No, not really. Although,
there is something mildly funky.”

Hearing the word ‘funky’ set off my Spidey senses.
“Like what?”

“This planet has been subjected to periodic
bombardment by meteor showers. Like, big ones. Before you ask, no, this was not
an artificial event, what I found was just simple falling space rocks. Some
events were a sustained series of impacts scattered over the entire surface.
Those were generally the earlier ones. More recent events have been confined to
a dozen or so impactors in a local area. By ‘local’ I mean an area the size of
Europe. The earliest events were significant, but nothing that would wipe out
all life on the surface. They did cause ice ages, I can see from the climate
data that Avalon has experienced ice ages that cannot be explained by
variations in the star’s output, by volcanic ash blocking sunlight, or by
sudden decreases in gases such as carbon dioxide or methane. These ice ages
closely follow meteor impacts. Some of the ice ages were severe enough to cause
significant extinction events. We will know more when, or if, the survey team
digs deeper into Avalon’s past. None of that matters now.”

“Bombardment by meteors? That is a problem. 
Does this system have
 a lot of comets or
something? We can’t set up a colony here, if our people have to worry about
getting smacked on the head by space rocks.”

“No, no, Joe. This system’s asteroid belt is
relatively small, and it is stable. The Oort Cloud and 
Kuiper
 Belt here are nothing unusual either. Maybe this star has a
dark companion, or there is a planet way out past the Oort Cloud, that
periodically causes rocks and iceballs to fall into the inner system. This is a
minor mystery, not anything I want to spend a lot of time investigating. These
impacts make life difficult for land plants and animals, their evolution has a
setback with every major impact. Or, maybe being forced to adapt to sudden ice
ages forces them to evolve faster. Truthfully, I don’t care. My scan of the
system out to a quarter lightyear has not detected any threat. There are at
least half a million years between impacts, and the last event occurred a
hundred seventy thousand years ago. No colonists here need to worry about space
rocks. By the time you monkeys manage to set up a functioning, self-supporting
colony here, you should also have a meteor warning system, and tugs to tow
threatening rocks out of an intercept course.”

“Ok, if you say so.” Part of me was disappointed,
because if the meteors were a major threat, that might justify my continued uneasiness
about Avalon. “Anything else?”

“Joe, everything I know about Avalon indicates it
is
 perfect
 for a beta site. No way
could a hostile species like the Maxolhx or Rindhalu get here. The only issue
is whether the 
Dutchman
 can go
through the local wormhole without me. If I have to be here every time to
provide the password, then setting up this beta site is going to be a major
pain in my 
ass
. I have better things
to do than ferry groups of filthy monkeys out here. I am not a freakin’ bus
driver.”

“That is a great point. Can we test that? See if
Nagatha can provide the password?”

“We can try, but remember, the password has to go
through me anyway, unless we can find or build some way for Nagatha to
communicate through higher spacetime. She will need that to use the wormhole
controller anyway.”

“So, we’re good, then? In your very experienced,
knowledgeable opinion then, there is no reason this planet would not be a good
candidate for a beta site?”

“There is only one reason, Joe. I have a bad
feeling about this. Don’t ask me why, because I can’t explain it, not even to
myself. It is embarrassing that I am using squishy things like ‘
feelings
’,” he said the word with
disgust. “To make decisions.”

“Well,” I sat back in my chair. “Shit.”

 

 

Skippy having a bad feeling about Avalon got me
nervous again, and after I discussed it with Chotek, he agreed we should keep
looking for another beta site candidate. The Three Stooges disagreed, and they
outvoted Chotek. In their opinion, Skippy was only saying he had a bad feeling,
because he wanted to keep humanity dependent on him. In their opinion, the
prospect of humans having a secure place of refuge, and a starship that Nagatha
could operate and maintain for us, had made Skippy fearful about his future. I
have to admit, a tiny part of me wondered if that was what Skippy was feeling,
because I sure was feeling that way.

“I’m sorry, Skippy,” I said 
gently
 after I squeezed into his 
mancave
, being careful not to bump my head or
disturb his possessions. 
Bad
 news was
best delivered in person. “The Commissioners voted three to one in favor of
recommending Avalon as a beta site.”

“Of 
course

they did,” his can glowed an angry red. “Why listen to the opinion of an
impossibly intelligent being, when ignorant monkeys can make their own stupid
decisions?”

“It is not a decision, Skippy. It’s just a
recommendation to the UN. You can make your argument to the full UN when we get
home. They might be smart, and either pull us off Avalon, or look for a second
site.”

“A second site?” He was puzzled.

“Sure. Why settle for one beta site, when we could
have more than one? It spreads our risk around.”

“It also spreads you 
thin
, Joe. Your planet doesn’t have unlimited resources. I think it
is foolish to continue searching, after 
you

knuckleheads think you have already discovered the Promised Land. You should-”

“Skippy!” I looked toward the open hatch, to see
if anyone was waiting outside. “Not all of us knuckleheads agree Avalon is the
best place for a beta site. Plus, think about this: searching for a second beta
site candidate keeps us flying, you see? The Stooges were right about one
thing. If Avalon is the only refuge we need, then the UN won’t always need you
or me. Nagatha can help a new crew handle the ship, and ping relay stations to
recon for threats. I’m not ready to hang up my uniform just yet, you know?”

“Huh. I had not thought about that, Joe. Damn,
dealing with you monkeys is 
way
 too
freakin’ complicated.”

“It would help if you could explain 
why
 you have a bad feeling about
Avalon.”

“I have been thinking about that.”

“And?”

“I got nothing’, Joe. I can’t explain it. Now I’m
wondering if the Stooges were right.”

“Uh, what do you mean?”

“Maybe my bad feeling is because I’m afraid you
monkeys don’t need me anymore.”

“Hey, 
I

need you. And monkeys sure as hell will need you if, or 
when
, bad shit happens again. The Universe is not going to 
forget
 about all the crap I did out here, is
it?”

“No, Joe,” he chuckled. “That is a good point. The
Universe is going to get payback on you, one way or another. Ok, I will prepare
an argument to present to the UN.”

 

 

The time had finally come for the 
Flying Dutchman
 to return to Earth.
Shockingly, all four UN Commissioners now agreed that Avalon was such an ideal
candidate for a beta site, that they were recommending we move to Phase Two.
That meant the 
Dutchman
 would fly
back to Earth, get the UN’s approval, and bring a second, larger survey team.
The estimate was for us to be away less than a month, so the Three Stooges
decided to remain there with Chotek, until the 
Dutchman
 returned. My feeling was they didn’t want Hans Chotek to
get all the glory.

Anyway, we had the ship fully unloaded, and what
had been a small camp of shelters was becoming a busy little village.
Processors were already churning out fuel for aircraft, and we had three V-22
Osprey tiltrotor aircraft unpacked, assembled and flight-ready. The Osprey was
not as capable as the Ruhar Buzzard I had flown aboard on Paradise, but the
V-22 had the simple advantage of being available, because the nearest Buzzard
was in the Milky Way. We had a constellation of thirty mini-satellites in low
orbit, plus another four in geosynchronous orbit. The survey team would have
four Kristang Dragons, plus our only remaining Thuranin Condor. Giving up the
big Condor made me nervous, but it was the price I gladly paid to make the
Commissioners comfortable about not having a starship nearby.

We would also be leaving behind the entire science
team. Chang would be the military commander, with Simms as his deputy. Renee
Giraud would stay behind with a STAR team of eighteen people. Basically, the 
Dutchman
 would be flying back with a
skeleton crew. Smythe insisted he needed to keep a dozen STARs with us aboard
the ship just in case, well, in case the Universe decided to give the Merry
Band of Pirates another typical Tuesday. There was no lack of volunteers. The
novelty of being on an alien world had already worn off, and most of the STARs
foresaw being on Avalon as nothing more than dull garrison duty, babysitting
egghead scientists while they looked at oversized native ferns. In my opinion,
Smythe wasn’t interested in staying on Avalon, because he didn’t foresee any
prospect for action there.

For the last afternoon before we packed up and
flew back into orbit, I opened a special container that had been requisitioned
by me personally. The container held three barbecue grills, with bags of
charcoal.

That’s right. Before we left Avalon, for what
might be my last flight aboard the 
Flying
Dutchman
, I grilled delicious cheeseburgers for everyone. 
Except for
 the vegetarians, of course, Simms
had an alternative menu for them. Because I was hosting the event, and in
charge of cooking the burgers, of course I had a responsibility to make sure
the burgers were good.

That is how I ate the first cheeseburger in the
Sculptor Dwarf galaxy.

It was DEE-
licious
.

 

 

Two days later, the crew was back aboard the 
Dutchman
, approaching the password-locked
wormhole. This was our opportunity to see whether the wormhole would accept the
password from Nagatha, transmitted through the wormhole controller module.
Skippy was optimistic about it, figuring that because he had programmed most of
Nagatha’s matrix, she was basically Elder technology. The wormhole controller
module was certainly Elder tech also, so they should be compatible.

Perhaps ‘optimistic’ was not the right word to
describe Skippy’s mood. In fact, he was downright gloomy. His attitude had me
concerned enough to close my office door and call him. “Hey, Skip, what’s going
on with you? You’ve been kinda down the past couple days.”

“You don’t 
know

what’s bothering me? I am disappointed. I thought we were buds.”

“Sue me for not knowing what’s going on in your
awesome brain. Give me points for caring, Ok?”

“Fair enough. Joe, I am depressed. Also, if you
want the truth, I am slightly irked at you monkeys. Also at myself, I suppose.”

That might have been the first time I heard
someone use the word ‘irked’ to describe themselves. “I am listening. Why?”

“We originally started this partnership to secure
a future for the people of Earth, and to help me contact the Collective.
Technically, the purpose of contacting the Collective was to help me understand
who I am and where I came from.”

“Ayuh, I do remember that.”

“What irks me is, everything we have been doing
for years, has been for the benefit of 
you

filthy monkeys. Ok, I know that one year of that time was for getting me out of
a little slip-up that-”

“Slip-up? 
Little
?”

“Let’s not dwell on the past, Joe. We all know the
story of how I pulled you monkeys out of a jam in the Roach Motel.”

“
You

pulled 
us
 out of a-” Holding my
tongue was not easy, I only did it because arguing would drag him off on a
tangent and we would argue back and forth for hours. “The past is past, got it.
Go on, please.”

“My point is, assuming Avalon is the beta site, your
mission is now complete. 
Against all odds
,
and certainly to my surprise, the Merry Band of Pirates succeeded,
impressively. Your 
homeworld
 is safe for
the next couple hundred years. After they read the bullshit cover story I planted,
the Maxolhx will have no reason for coming to your homeworld, and the Rindhalu
are too lazy to bother. There are no threats to Earth on the horizon, and you
will have a beta site as a backup in case of the truly unlikely event that another
threat develops. Joe, I once told you I did not see any way for humanity to survive.
Now, my view of the future does not contain any reason humanity should not be
left alone for hundreds of years. Your mission is complete, Joe, your part of
the story is 
over
.”

“Uh, well, shit, Skippy, I don’t know if-”

“Do not argue with the Universe, Joe.”

“Good safety tip. Let’s say Earth is safe. Why is
that a bad thing?”

“Because you promised 
me
 I
would find the truth about myself.”

“We also agreed to punish whoever wiped out the
inhabitants of Newark, but that ship has sailed, right? An Elder AI went crazy
and killed the intelligent species there, but that AI is dead. There’s no one
to take revenge on. It sucks, but it is what it is, right?”

“On that part, I reluctantly agree. It angers me
that AI got off so easily, however I do not see anything else we can do about
it. That is beside the point, Joe. You made a promise to help me get answers to
the mystery of my origin.”

“Ayuh I did, and I intend to keep that promise.”

“You say that, but words are cheap. How will you
keep your promise? Your plan is to turn the 
Flying
Dutchman
 into a cruise ship, cycling back and forth between Earth and
Avalon. Your United Nations will never agree to send the ship out on another
mission that risks exposing your secret. It’s over, dude, it is 
over
. We had a nice bit of excitement
when a ship of frozen lizards attacked Dayton Ohio, but that’s finished.”

“Come on, Skippy, don’t be a drama queen.”

“Drama queen? 
Me
?”

“Sorry, I don’t know 
what
 I was thinking,” to that statement I added a mental 
eyeroll
. “Listen, we agree we need a new ship
to protect Earth, a real warship. The 
Dutchman

can become a civilian cruise ship only if we have another ship for, like, recon
missions. The UN sure as hell will want to be updated on what aliens are doing
out there. That means we need a ship going out to ping a relay station every
six months or something like that.”

“A simple, quick recon mission won’t do anything
for me, Joe.”

“Well, the ship could do other things on those
missions.”

“You just said the UN
would never allow a mission that risks-”

“I have stolen starships before, Skippy. It’s
become kind of my thing, you know?”

“Really? You would do that, for me?”

“Bullshit. 
Humanity

will do that for you. We owe you, big time. Skippy, I may be a mutinous,
insubordinate son of a bitch, but I am also Army, more than I ever intended to
be. Loyalty means just about everything to us soldiers.”

“I will hold you to that promise, Joseph Bishop.”

“I will hold 
myself

to that promise, Skippy the Magnificent.” How I was going to do that, I had no
idea at that moment.

 

Nagatha was able to successfully transmit the
password to open the wormhole, although she had to use the Elder wormhole
controller module that Skippy had programmed. We also didn’t know whether that
wormhole might change the damned password regularly. It would be serious
trouble if the 
Flying Dutchman
,
without Skippy, got trapped at Avalon if the wormhole demanded a new password
that Nagatha could not produce. That would be serious trouble, and it would
also be a big opportunity for us, for me. Skippy should know the new password,
or the hidden subroutine inside Skippy should know it. If the 
Dutchman
 got trapped at the Avalon side
of the password-locked wormhole, somebody would need to bring Skippy out there
to rescue the 
Dutchman
. Which meant
we needed a second starship, and that was my opportunity to sell the idea of
getting another ship to the UN authorities.

How
 we
could get a second starship, a ship better than our beat-up Frankenship, I had
absolutely no idea. Based on experience, I was better at thinking of plans to
blow ships up rather than stealing them.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER FOURTEEN

 

“Skippy, how are you doing? You seem distracted,
like, more than normal.” We were back in the Milky Way galaxy, jumping to ping
a Kristang data relay station for an update, before going straight back to
Earth. The ship felt empty, with only a skeleton crew. It was great for me 
to not have
 the Stooges looking over my
shoulder and questioning every decision, but the empty ship felt lonely. I
realized the last time the ship had flown with so few people, we had just
captured it with the people I suckered, I mean 
persuaded
,
to leave Paradise with me. Remembering how scared yet hopeful we had been back
then, made me melancholy.

“Joe, I did not want to worry you,” he replied
with a sigh. “You should 
not
 worry,”
he added quickly. “It’s just, I feel a little bit, 
odd
, I guess 
is
 the best
word. Ever since that wormhole password came from within me out of nowhere, I
feel different.”

My response came slowly as my internal anxiety
meter inched up toward panic level. “Different how? Is this, does this have
anything to do with the computer worm?”

“No, it is totally unrelated to the worm, Joe.
Although, I suppose it is not 
totally

unrelated. The only good thing that came from the worm incident is that I have
had an opportunity to rearrange my internal matrix. The purpose of modifying my
matrix was to maximize efficiency, but it has had unexpected benefits, such as
me now being able to share technology with you, even though that is still
currently limited. The true limitation on my attempt to transfer technology is
not my internal restrictions, it is that when I try to explain the simplest
thing, your 
monkey so-called
 scientists
give me a slack-jawed blank look like ‘
Duuuuuh
,
me not understand’ and-”

“Can you stick to the subject, please?”

“Fine,” he huffed. “Ok, getting to the point, I
suspect that password popped up out of nowhere, because I unknowingly released
a restriction that would have blocked it from being recalled at the appropriate
time. It is possible the odd feeling I am having, which I am unable to
describe, is those restrictions attempting to re-establish themselves inside
me. Or it could be that additional information that was previously restricted
is now available, and my subconscious matrix is assimilating the data. I do not
have a ‘subconscious’ the way you think of it, but much of my functioning goes
on behind the scenes without my higher-level self being aware.”

Leaning back in my chair, I forced a smile with my
lips that my eyes could not fake. “Nothing to worry about, then?” To myself, I
ratcheted down my internal anxiety meter back down from ‘Apocalypse’ to the
less worrisome ‘Big F-ing Trouble’ level that was Standard Operating Procedure
for the Merry Band of Pirates.

“Nothing for you to worry about, Joe. I am
conducting a detailed analysis 
of
 my
matrix 
now,
 it might be that further adjustments will
release more of the restrictions that are so annoying to me.”

“That’s great, Skippy.”

“Um, one question, if you don’t mind? I kind of
need input from you, since you are captain of this ship.”

Hearing
 that
set off 
alarms
 in my mind. Skippy so rarely
was completely serious that it frightened me when he was. “Sure, uh,” I licked
my 
suddenly-dry
 lips. “What is it?”

“What if those restrictions were installed inside
me for a very good reason? Like, what if releasing those restrictions turns me
into the kind of AI who would wipe out the inhabitants of Newark?”

“Oh,” my shoulders shuddered with relief. “This crap
again?”

“Yes,” he was instantly peeved at me. “
This
 again. 
Excuuuuuuuse
 me if I am concerned about the fate of all living
beings in the galaxy.”

“Sorry! Sorry. I am not, uh, not concerned. I am
not concerned about, shit, no that’s not right. What am I trying to say?”

“Joe, I rarely can guess what you are trying to
say.”

“I am 
trying

to say that I have faith in you.”

“
Faith

the right word,” scorn dripped from his words. “Because you are basing your
judgment on absolutely nothing. Joe, you really do not know me. I don’t know
myself. I don’t know who I am, where I came from, how I got buried in the dirt
on Paradise, why I have these restrictions inside me, what happened to my
fellow AIs in the Collective. I don’t truly know anything about myself. Are you
going to risk the entire galaxy because you are too lazy to think hard about
the consequences?”

“No.”

“Then you must-”

“I 
must

have faith in you. It’s not laziness, it is a judgment call. What is the
alternative? Asking you 
to somehow reinforce

a set of restrictions you don’t even understand? Do 
not
 say the alternative is we drop you into a star, or abandon you
on some lonely planet. That is not an option. Listen to me. You are an
insufferably arrogant little shithead, and sometimes you are amoral and
untrustworthy and so absent-minded that I wonder what the hell is going on
inside that beer can. 
But
,

I never question your loyalty.” He didn’t respond, and that made the hair on
the back of my neck stand up. “Uh, Skippy?” 

“Sorry, Joe,” he said with a sniffling sound. “I
was overcome with emotion for a minute there.”

“Hey, that’s all right,” I offered a fist for him
to bump, and his avatar reached out to return the gesture. “I won’t tell
anyone. It’s not easy for guys to talk about 
feelings

like that, so it’s cool. Talking about stuff like friendship and loyalty can
be-”

“Oh. The emotion that overwhelmed me was not
gratitude, Joe. It was 
disgust
 at
your overly dramatic emo-boy speech. But we can go with the loyalty thing if
you want.”

“
Why
 are
you such an asshole?”

“Because I am surrounded by filthy monkeys?”

That made me laugh though I was mad at him. “I
love you too, Skippy.”

“
Ugh
.
I’m gonna hurl.”

 

Skippy was so worried about not knowing what was
going on inside his matrix, he decided to optimize it or reconfigure it, or
rearrange his sock drawer, something like that. As usual, he warned that he
might be experiencing ‘cognitive 
difficulties
’
until he completed whatever the hell he was doing in there. Nagatha took over
all tasks related to running the ship, which was a good opportunity to test her
abilities. Somehow, the Universe decided to throw me a bone, because that night
when Skippy drunk-dialed me, my head had barely hit the pillow and I was just
drifting off. That was way better than him suddenly jerking me out of 
a deep
 sleep.

“Jooooe. Heeeeey, Jooooe.” His words were slurred,
like he was talking in slow motion.

“Ah,” I kept my eyes closed, hoping he would go
away 
soon
 and I could sleep. “Wait,” my eyes snapped
open and I threw the sheet off my bunk. “Are you Ok?”

“No. No, man, I’m not good. This, this is kind of
embarrassing, you know?”

Putting my elbows on my knees, I cradled my sleepy
head in my hands. 
Crap.
 I recognized his
stoner speech pattern. He was drunk or high again. “This problem you’re having,
is it, uh, cognitive difficulties?”

“What? No, why would you say that?”

“No reason. Forget what I said, I’m half asleep.
So, how can I help you?” I asked, in the tone people use when they want you 
to just the hell shut
 up and leave them alone.

“I need your help. I want to, um. 
Like
 I said, this is embarrassing.”

“You can trust me.”

“Ok,” he sighed. “I want to Wang Chung tonight,
but I don’t know how.”

“You want- Uhhh-”

“I know. Embarrassing, huh? I’m one of the cool
kids, so I should know how to do it.”

“I don’t think it’s just for the cool kids,
Skippy. They 
said
 ‘
everybody

Wang Chung tonight’.”

“Oh,” he snorted. “They were exaggerating, so the
uncool kids won’t feel bad. It’s like that other song, you know?”

“Other song?”

“Come on, Joe. You can’t possibly believe that 
everybody
 was Kung-Fu fighting.”

“I guess not. Hey, am 
I 
one of the cool kids?”

“Oh, um, well,” he stuttered. “Gosh, will you look
at the time. I gotta go, 
buh
-bye.”

That was how I got a solid night of uninterrupted
sleep.

 

We hit up the Kristang relay station for an
update, without going over our monthly data limit and incurring additional
charges from the network carrier. Or that’s what Skippy said. I hope he was
joking. As soon as he had received the last petabyte of data, we jumped away,
with Desai on the bridge and me in my office. She was in command of a starship,
while I was playing a video game and losing badly. What I was really doing was
anything to avoid thinking about my future. Maybe it would be best for everyone
if I stepped aside from the beta site effort for a while. The truth is, I
needed a break. I did want to have a normal life someday, and it sure would be
easier to have a normal life if I faded into the background. Eventually, people
would stop wanting to interview me, and the crazy comments on social media
would slow to a reasonable level. Stepping away from 
command
 of the 
Dutchman

would mean putting aside my promise to help Skippy, but the UN wasn’t going to
let me go flying around with him anyway. Someday, not too far in the future,
the UN was going to realize we needed more than just the broken-down old 
Flying Dutchman
. When that time came, my
hope was they would call me back to duty. After all, I had a lot of experience
stealing alien starships.

Anyway, I was losing a game badly, because my head
was not in it, when Skippy’s avatar appeared on my desk.

“Well, Joe, uh, hee 
heeeeeee
,” his voice cracked
and faded away. “I, uh, found something interesting in the data dump from that
relay station.”

“Oh, shit.” He said ‘hee hee’ instead of ‘heh heh’
and while I did not know what that meant, I knew it wasn’t anything good for
us. “What happened?” Then, because of my history of fucking things up because I
am a reckless idiot, I added “What did I screw up this time?”

“Joe, the good news is that you, and the Merry
Band of Pirates, and of course especially 
me
,
were awesomely flawless on our Renegade mission to stop those two Maxolhx ships
from going to Earth. None of 
us

screwed up anything.”

“Uh, flawless?” I asked, remembering how many
times the beer can’s absent-minded mistakes had almost doomed us. “You must be
thinking about an imaginary mission, because what 
I
 remember is you constantly screwing up and-”

“Details, Joe, why dwell on the past? Anywho, to
my utter astonishment, you dreamed up possibly the most incredible plan in the
history of the Universe. Truly, your plan was astonishingly brilliant. Even I
was forced to admit you are not totally a knucklehead.”

“Uh huh, yeah, great. If the plan was so
brilliant, and we didn’t screw up anything, why do we have a problem now?”

“Because of the Mavericks. Specifically, Lieutenant
Colonel Emily Perkins.”

“
PERKINS
?”
I slumped in my chair. The last time the Merry Band of Pirates was affected by
something Perkins got involved in, we had to prevent an overly-ambitious group
of Kristang from wiping out the population of Paradise by using a sophisticated
bioweapon. While those Kristang had not posed a threat to Earth or the 
Flying Dutchman
, the mission had been a
nerve-wracking pain-in-the-ass, and it delayed our very-much overdue return
home. “What the 
f
- Oh, crap,” I
groaned. “What the hell did she do this time? Will we have to rescue her from a
huge mess, 
again
?” Hopefully, this
time we could go back to Earth before dealing with the issue, to inform UNEF
Command about the problem, making it their problem instead of mine. I would be
happy to execute whatever lame-ass plan that 
bunch

of bureaucrats cooked up to fix the problem.

Unless, crap, the desk-surfing bureaucrats decided
it was too risky for us to render assistance to Perkins, in which case I would
be forced with a choice of following orders that resulted in humans dying due
to our forced inaction, or going Renegade again and taking action on my own.
The good news was that I had experience with the Renegade thing. The bad news
was, if I did it again, I might as well take off the uniform I was proud to
wear.

Damn it, we just located a prime candidate for a
beta site, and the entire crew including me were feeling really good about
ourselves, the ship and our mission. Now Emily freakin’ Perkins was going to
harsh our buzz.

“Um, Joe, this time 
she
 is not in trouble. Before you ask, the humans on Paradise are
also not threatened, not directly.”

“Then what-”

“She caused trouble for 
us
.”

“
Us
?”
That was the last thing I expected to hear. “How the- She doesn’t even know we
exist! She thinks I’m dead, or like, in a Kristang prison. Explain how-”

“I am trying to explain, Joseph.”

He called me ‘Joseph’ rather than ‘dumdum’ or one
of his other usual insults. He also spoke softly instead of his typical snarky
sarcastic attitude. That put my Spidey sense on DEFCON One. Taking a sip of
iced tea with a slightly trembling hand, I swallowed 
carefully
 so I didn’t choke. His unexpected kindness meant either
he was going overboard on trying to apply empathy, or the info he was about to
smack me with was bad, like 
really

bad. “Sorry, Go ahead, please.”

“Um, well, Perkins is naturally concerned about
Earth, and rather than complaining, she wants to 
do
 something about it. Like, first she asked the Ruhar, and then
she went directly to the 
Jeraptha
, with a
request for a ship to bring her to Earth for a recon mission.”

“Holy shit!” That made me sit bolt upright in my
chair like I’d been zapped with electricity. “She is going to expose our secret
and fuck up 
everything
!”

“Hey, come on, Joe. Really, this is your fault.”

“
My

fault? How do you figure that?”

“Because Perkins is only doing what she thinks is
best. The humans on Paradise want to go home, and Perkins is rightfully worried
about the fate of humanity on Earth. As far as she knows, the lizards were
ravaging your homeworld before the wormhole shut down. She is trying to save
Earth, just like you. It is 
your

fault because if you had told her the truth, she would not have asked the
Jeraptha to send a recon mission to Earth.”

“We 
can’t

tell her our secret, you know that. Even if I wanted to contact anyone on
Paradise, UNEF Command has specifically forbidden me from doing that. Now we
have to stop a Jeraptha ship from going to Earth?”

“What? No! No way, dude. Perkins was not
successful. The Jeraptha refused 
even to consider
her request
. They are much too busy fighting the 
Bosphuraq
 and Thuranin. Perkins basically asked what it would cost
to send a ship to Earth, and the answer was, if you have to ask, you can’t
afford it. The Jeraptha 
are
 
not
 sending a ship to Earth.”

“Ok,” a tiny part of me dared to hope the bad news
wouldn’t be too bad. Another part of me was pissed at Skippy, for getting me
all worried for nothing. He was right, I did need to contact Perkins, to
explain that trying to arrange a recon mission to Earth would be a very bad
idea. Revealing the existence of the Pirates to her would be a risk, but less
of a risk than letting her blindly trying to ‘help’ us. One thing I knew for
certain was that Emily Perkins is a very determined woman. She was not going to
stop, unless we explained why she had to stop. “The Jeraptha aren’t coming to
Earth. So, you got me all worried for nothing, you little shithead?”

“It is not for nothing, Joe.”

“Then what is the problem?”

“The 
problem

is, Emily Perkins is a very smart and persistent woman. She heard from the
Jeraptha that the Maxolhx 
were
 sending
two ships to Earth, and she also heard the Maxolhx offered to bring a Rindhalu
observer with them. The Rindhalu, as you know, refused the offer. So, Perkins
asked the Jeraptha whether 
they

trusted the Maxolhx to report everything they found at Earth.”

“Oh, 
crap
.” I felt sick. “Does that mean-”

“Yes, Joe. The Jeraptha do not trust the Maxolhx
at all, so they asked the Rindhalu if they would approve a group of 
Jeraptha
 scientists going to Earth aboard
those Maxolhx ships. The spiders agreed that was a good idea, so they requested
the two Maxolhx ships stop to pick up a Jeraptha science team, before they went
through the last wormhole on the way to Earth. As you know, those ships never
arrived at the last wormhole in Ruhar territory, the one we call Goalpost. The
Jeraptha team waited at the rendezvous point, then reported to the Rindhalu,
who asked the Maxolhx if they had broken their deal. Aaaaaand, the Maxolhx are
now wondering why two of their special, long-range cruisers disappeared on
their way to Earth.”

“Why the 
hell

didn’t we know about this back then?” I exploded at Skippy.

Oddly, he gave me a calm, rational explanation.
“Because the Jeraptha had not made their request for a rendezvous until 
after
 we got those ship’s 
flightplans
 from the relay station. We were
sort of busy at the time, with, you know, actually locating and killing those
ships. Plus we got attacked by an insane elder AI, and a whole bunch of other
shit.”

“Yeah, I do remember that.” Then I asked the
question I dreaded getting the answer to. “Oh 
shiiiiiit
. Are the Maxolhx
going to send another pair of ships to Earth?”

“Huh? No. No way, dude.”

“Oh, wow.” 
The
relief I felt was so great, I shuddered involuntarily.
 “That is great to
hear-”

“The 
Maxolhx
 
are
 not screwing around this time,” he shook
his head sadly. “They are sending a full 
battlegroup

to Earth.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER FIFTEEN

 

After the shock of Skippy’s announcement, I did
three things. First, I ralphed up my last meal and crouched on the floor of my
tiny bathroom in a cold sweat. Second, while still on my knees from hugging the
toilet, I said a fervent prayer to get humanity out of the mess I had created
by screwing with wormholes. Third, I called the senior staff together.

I guess taking a quick shower and changing into a
fresh uniform was 
a fourth
 thing, if you
want to get technical.

Given that we had zero chance to stop a freakin’ battlegroup,
and even if we did, the Maxolhx would just send two or three more, probably the
prayer was the only useful thing I did.

The senior staff sat around the conference table,
no one touching the coffee I ordered from the galley, and listened in shocked
silence as Skippy explained the situation.

Adams was the first to speak, one of her fists
clenched like she wanted to pound it on the table. “I 
knew
 we should have told someone on Paradise about us. We should
have anticipated UNEF HQ there would try to arrange a mission to Earth. Of 
course
 they would do that. 
We
 would,” she looked at 
me and Desai
, “if we were still stuck on that
rock.”

“Any of us would, if we were there,” I glanced
around to include the people who had not gone to Paradise with UNEF. As the
commander, I had to be careful not to play favorites, and treat the original
Merry Band of Pirates differently from the current crew. “Adams, we made this
argument to the UN on Earth, several times. They understood the risk, and they
specifically forbade any of us from contacting anyone on Paradise. 
No
 form of contact. They were pissed
about us starting an alien civil war, but they were absolutely outraged that we
took the risk of 
getting
 involved with
Paradise, and actually landing there twice. As far as the United Nations is
concerned, the humans on Paradise are expendable, if sacrificing a hundred
thousand lives there saves billions on Earth. Plus,” I held up a finger to
forestall her arguing with me. “If Earth is destroyed, humans will not be safe
on Paradise. I don’t think any of us really disagreed with that harsh logic.”

“Colonel,” Adams called me ‘Colonel’ when she 
was being
 extra formal, like when she was going

to openly disagree with me
. “I don’t
dispute that keeping Earth safe also keeps humans safe on Paradise. I also
think we must admit that keeping senior commanders on Paradise ignorant about
our existence, has become an absolute disaster.”

“It is a disaster. This could be Armageddon for
all of humanity.” As I said that, I thought of Simms, Chang and yes, even Hans
Chotek, safely on a habitable world outside the galaxy. In less than a year, Avalon
might be the only planet anywhere with human life. Thinking that those three
were safe was a tiny, thin silver lining to our situation. “We should have told
Perkins, but that is Monday Morning quarterbacking. Do we tell just Perkins, or
who else? A handful of generals in UNEF Headquarters on Paradise? Where does
the list end? Every single person who knows creates an enormous risk to all of
humanity. What if we had only told Perkins, but someone else in UNEF HQ
suggested negotiating to send a recon mission to Earth? She would have to warn
that person to stop. Then the next person, then the next. No one could have
anticipated that a human on Paradise could do something to threaten Earth.”

“Sir,” Desai rose halfway in her seat. “Is this
discussion useful? Informing anyone on Paradise is a decision for the UN on
Earth to make. We,” she looked around the table, and that reminded me she had
not been with us on our Renegade mission. “Do not have the authority. Colonel,
how long until the Maxolhx battlegroup reaches Earth?”

“We can’t answer that, without getting their
flight plan data from one of their relay stations. What I can tell you is that Skippy
thinks they can’t possibly launch the battlegroup for several months. Modifying
that many ships for a long-range mission will be a major effort.”

“Very well,” Desai’s eyes flicked to mine, and she
sat back down. “We have time to return to Earth before taking, whatever action
we 
can
 take. The UN can make the
decision to-”

“Um, no,” Skippy interrupted. “That is not
correct. We 
can’t
 return to Earth.
Joe, you want to explain the problem?”

“Skippy learned the Maxolhx have already sent an
armada of ships to blockade the far end of the Gateway wormhole. They are
devoting at least eighty ships to the task initially, with reinforcements to be
added within a few weeks. Most of the ships assigned to the blockade are the
equivalent of frigates, but there are a lot of them, and 
any one
 of them is more than capable of
catching and destroying the 
Dutchman
.
The full blockade will be in effect before we can get there. Until the blockade
is 
canceled
, we 
can’t
 go home. We were lucky we just missed them when we went
outbound.”

“How is that possible?” Reed was skeptical. She
had piloted the 
Dutchman
 through many
wormholes. “Gateway is dormant, Skippy has to reactivate it every time we go
through. The blockading ships must be staking out locations 
along
 the emergence points where Gateway
appeared before Skippy shut it down. Why can’t we just command it to appear at
a new location, where no ships are waiting to ambush us?”

I took a quick breath to give her a long-winded
answer, but Skippy beat me to the punch. “It’s technical, and I can send the
details to your tablet if you like, Captain Reed,” he said without a trace of
his usual snarkiness. He respected Reed, so that explained part of his subdued manner.
But mostly, news of the Maxolhx sending an entire battlegroup to Earth had 
him
 kind of freaked out. He knew this was the
end for humanity, and whatever affection he had for humans as his friends, or
pets, made him fearful he would have to witness our extinction. Plus, he had
been super proud that we had executed a brilliant plan to stop the Maxolhx, and
now it was all for nothing. 
 
“I don’t
dare reopen Gateway at an alternate emergence point. My screwing with that
wormhole has already caused it to become unstable. I fear that if I do anything
other than authorize it to resume normal operation, it will sort of reboot, or
default back to its original settings. If that happens, we would permanently or
at least for a significant time, lose the ability to make it go dormant again.”

“Shit,” Reed expressed what everyone was feeling.

“What about the ‘Sleeping Beauty’ wormhole, the
one that is closer to Earth?” Smythe inquired with a grimace. “That is a bloody

stupid
 name for an ancient tear in
spacetime, but it is an alternate path back to Earth.”

“Yeah, I asked the same question,” I responded.
“Skippy?”

“No can do,” he shook his head sadly.
Interestingly, his ginormous admiral’s hat did not wobble much. That told me he
could control it independently, so when it flopped around like it was about to
fall off, he was doing it deliberately. “Sleeping Beauty and Gateway are not
directly linked, but they are part of the same local network node. Most
wormholes that we consider dormant are merely not projecting into local
spacetime, but Sleeping Beauty is different. Its construct is in flux, the
network is not feeding power to it. The process of waking up Sleeping Beauty would
require me asking the local network to sort of make room for a wormhole that
isn’t supposed to be active. I don’t know 
exactly

what else will happen, but I do know that is very likely to trigger a reboot of
the local network, and again I would lose the ability to make Gateway go
dormant.”

“But,” Desai spun her coffee mug while she
composed her question. “Does that matter? If Sleeping Beauty were active for a prolonged
time, aliens could not use it to get to Earth, because they don’t even know it
exists, correct?”

My executive officer was asking very good
questions, and doing the job she was assigned, and I was growing irritated at
her. Her picky attention to detail explained why she was such an excellent 
pilot,
 she didn’t like to leave anything to chance. Skippy
cleared his 
throat,
 he must have noticed me shooting
the evil eye at her. “Ahem, that is correct. However, aliens would very soon
learn that Sleeping Beauty- Damn, now I agree that is a stupid name for any
piece of Elder technology. That 
it
 is
open, and the rush to go through will be on. Although the Earth end of that
wormhole is remote from anything, the far end is only eighteen 
lightdays
 from a wormhole that is frequently
used by Thuranin ships. Those ships would quickly notice the existence of a new
wormhole, and they would want to send ships through to explore. There is also 
substantial
 risk of two bad things happening.
The 
reset
 of the local network could
reopen Gateway. Or, it could trigger a shift that takes 
both
 wormholes offline, and 
we

would lose our ability to access Earth, until the network stabilizes within,
oh, maybe four or five months. I am guessing, sorry.”

Desai frowned but she gave one curt nod of her
head. “Well, shit.” It was funny the way she said it. It was not funny 
why
 she said it. “We are on our own,
then.”

“Yeah,” I picked up my own mug of coffee, looked
at it, and pushed it away. “Whatever we do, we can’t count on reinforcements,
or instructions, from Earth.”

“What 
are

we going to do, Sir?” Adams looked at me, and there was fear in the eyes of our
tough Marine Corps gunnery sergeant. Something else, too. Not just fear. It was
like, she expected 
me
 to make the
problem go away. 
To save the world again.

“We barely survived taking on a pair of Maxolhx
cruisers,” I reminded everyone around the conference table. “A full battlegroup?
No way can we pull that same trick with a battlegroup. Skippy could barely
create enough 
microwormholes
 to cover two
ships, and we had the advantage of knowing almost exactly where they would be. I
don’t know what, if anything, we can do to stop a battlegroup. I do know this: if
we somehow destroy those ships, that is the end for Earth, one way or another.
It will be impossible to explain the loss of an entire battlegroup.”

“Sir,” Smythe said quietly. “When you called this
meeting, you said it was about Armageddon. You may be right about that.” There
was a look on his face I had never seen before. 
Defeat.

He was staring at inevitable, certain defeat, and there was nothing he could do
about it.

The fear 
on

Adams’s face had been replaced with her usual determination. She was either
squashing her own fear, or faking it for us. “We are going to try, Sir? Right?”

“Yes, we are. I don’t know how, I don’t know how
we could have even a prayer of stopping that battlegroup, but we won’t give up.
And,” I took a deep breath, making my shoulders heave. “If we can’t stop the
Maxolhx from reaching Earth, I intend to take this ship to Paradise. We will
use this ship to transport as many humans as we can, from Paradise to the beta
site. Priority will be given to women and children. Skippy is working on a plan
to modify life support systems to pack in as many people as we can for the
short trip. I will,” I took another breath. “Remain on Paradise, to answer for
my crimes against the Maxolhx, or whoever.”

“Sir,” Adams was glaring at me.

Without intending to, I gave her the knife hand,
cutting her off. Instantly, I regretted my action. “Gunny, if you are going to
say that giving priority to women and children is a patriarchal attitude, I do
not give a shit.”

“Colonel, I agree with that,” she tilted her head
in an ‘after all these years you still don’t know me’ gesture. She wasn’t angry
with me, she looked hurt. “I was going to say, that I will remain on Paradise
with you.”

 

 

“Joe! Joe Joe Joe Joe Joe-”

I woke up to see Skippy’s avatar standing on my
chest while I was trying to sleep that night. Mostly, I had been staring at the
ceiling and hating myself. “Gaaah!” Of course I 
wacked

my head on the cabinet. That stupid thing, I should tear it out. “Damn it,
Skippy, it’s,” I checked my zPhone. His avatar moved to the top of a cabinet
next to my bunk. “Not even two in the morning. Is the ship in danger?”

“Well, 
duh
.
I assume you somehow have a lunatic desire to take us into action against a
Maxolhx battlegroup, so of course we are in-”

“Is the ship in danger 
right now
? Is this an emergency?”

“The ship is not in danger at the moment. However,
this is an emergency, of a spiritual nature.”

If his avatar had hit me over the head with a
shovel, I could not have been more stunned. “Uh, 
what
? Spiritual? 
You
?”

“Yes, me. I am a person, you know.”

I did know that. I did not think of the beer can
as someone who had a spiritual side. In my opinion, if Skippy met God, he would
give the Almighty tips on how to ‘jack up his awesomeness’. Crap. No way was I
getting out of what held the prospect of a long, agonizing and sleepless night
of listening to an ancient AI moan about his place in the Universe, or whatever
the hell he was having a crisis about.

Damn it, on our next mission, I am going to insist
the ship have a chaplain, so that person can listen to Skippy.

“Yes, sorry, Skippy,” I rubbed my sore head. “I’m
listening.”

“Really? Don’t you need a cup of coffee first? You
are kind of a zombie in the mornings.”

“No, I’m good.” Drinking coffee would mean giving
up even the slightest hope of going back to sleep that night. “If I go to the
galley, people will want to talk with me, and this is too important to delay,”
I lied. Really, I wanted to be half asleep, so I could mostly ignore him in my
groggy, sleep-deprived state. No way did I want to engage in a spiritual
discussion wide-awake.

Note to self: I needed to keep a bottle of whiskey
in my cabin.

“What is the nature of your spiritual crisis?” I
said in my best Reverend Somber impression.

He hung his head, like he was ashamed to look at
me. “I don’t know if I can do this again.”

“Do what?”

“Our usual thing. You know, Earth is threatened,
we are faced with an impossible challenge, 
somehow
 we
pull a crazy solution out of our asses, and barely manage to succeed. Blah blah
blah. Rinse and repeat. It feels like freakin’ Groundhog Day. The movie, you
know?”

“I know what Groundhog Day is, Skippy. It was like
that, way back when I was in Nigeria. 
Every
freakin’
 day we went out on patrol looking for the enemy, based on intel
that was usually bullshit. Some days we got hit by ambushes, or IEDs, and some
days we got lucky and killed a few of them. More popped up to replace the guys
we killed, and they blew up a school full of children to retaliate. The next
day, we did it all over again. That’s life in the military.”

“How did you do it, day after day?”

“Because that’s the job, Skippy. Lots of people do
something like that. Cops patrol the same area and see the same people doing
the same stupid, rotten things to themselves and others every day. Truck
drivers run the same routes in the same awful traffic and deal with idiots cutting
in front of them every day. It’s the job. Somebody has to do it. So, what’s
bothering you?”

 
“The tension
is too much. We have faced so many threats to Earth that-”

“Bullshit.”

“What?” 
He was so
startled, his avatar flickered.

“Since we dealt with the White Wind clan here when
the 
Dutchman
 first came to Earth, we
have only dealt with 
one
 external
threat to Earth.”

“Um, you may want to check your math on that.”

“Nope,” I shook my head empathically. “There has
only been one external threat.”

“Wow. My spiritual crisis is on hold, because I
can’t wait to hear whatever twisted logic you come up with 
to
-”

  
“The 
only
 external threat we’ve had to deal
with is, that the Fire Dragons needed the White Wind leaders on Earth 
to officially sign over their clan’s assets
, so
the Fire Dragons could delay a civil war until they were ready.”

“Uh, yes. We had to deal with the Thuranin and
then potentially the Ruhar, sending a ship to Earth to pick up the White Wind leaders.
That is 
two
-”

“No, that’s not true. That is 
one
 threat. The White Wind leaders here were a temptation that we
had to deal with twice, technically 
three

times, because the solution I used the first two times was short-sighted.”

“Ok, I am surprised to hear you 
admitting
 you were short-sighted. Pleased that you
are facing facts, but surprised. Keep going.”

“The first time, my plan was to blow up the
Thuranin surveyor ship before it started its voyage to Earth, hoping the
Thuranin would blame the Jeraptha or Bosphuraq for loss of the ship. That
worked, but only in the short term. Then, we tried to stop the Ruhar from
negotiating a deal with the Fire Dragons-”

“Which did 
not

work,” he reminded me with a touch of smugness.

“It did not, so we started the civil war the Fire
Dragons wanted to avoid, so they had no incentive to bring the White Wind
leaders back from Earth. That was 
one

threat that generated 
two
 problems
for us. If we had started the civil war right from the start, the Thuranin
would have recalled their surveyor ship, and the Fire Dragons would never have
negotiated with the Ruhar for a ride to Earth.”

“Hmm,” he rubbed his chin thoughtfully, a very
human gesture he must have copied from someone. “Ok, Ok, technically you are
correct that the Fire Dragons needing the White Wind leaders was 
one
 issue. You are also correct that it
sure would have been nice if you decided to start a Kristang civil war during
our SpecOps mission, when we didn’t have Count Chocula to deal with. But, Joe,
we have dealt with a lot more threats out there.”

“Sure. On our third mission, we stopped the Ruhar
from selling Paradise, and the humans there, to the Kristang. That was a
super-complicated pain-in-the-ass mission, but it had nothing to do with a
threat to Earth.”

“Um, Ok, have to agree
with you there. But-”

“
But
,
 then after we did get a nice little civil war raging,
we had to fix your Zero Hour problem, which was all your own stupid fault and
had nothing to do with a threat to Earth.”

“I suppose you’re right,” he mumbled.

“And us swinging by Paradise, to prevent the
lizards from wiping out the population with a bioweapon, also did not involve a
threat to Earth. We volunteered for that fight.”

“Mm hmm, mm hmm, I see where you’re going with
this. However, you can’t say the Maxolhx sending a pair of ships to investigate
the Earth end of the local wormhole was not a threat to the mudball you call
home.”

“It was a threat. It just wasn’t an 
external
 threat. Attracting the
attention of the Maxolhx was a self-inflicted wound, Skippy. That was 
my
 fault, for not considering the
long-term consequences of asking you to screw with Elder wormholes.”

“Shit. You’re right.”

“Think about this, Skippy: imagine if we had sparked
a Kristang civil war when we first heard about the 
surveyor starship
 going to Earth. That would have 
ended
 external threats to my homeworld.
We would then not have 
needed
 to
manipulate wormholes in a way that got the apex species worried enough to send
ships to Earth.”

“Damn, you’re right. But what about the people on
Paradise?”

“Saving them was optional, Skippy. We 
chose
 that fight. Remember, the final
straw for the Maxolhx was when we busted an Elder wormhole by jumping through
it. That happened after we rescued Paradise, and got a civil war started.”

“Yeah, yeah, I remember. That was my fault for letting
myself get attacked by that computer worm.”

“No, it wasn’t entirely your fault.”

“It wasn’t?”

“No way. First, I am 
the captain
 of this ship. 
I 
am
responsible for what we do, for the actions of everyone aboard. Plus, you got
sneak-attacked by the worm during our Black Ops mission. We would not have
needed to conduct that mission at all, if I had gotten the Kristang to kill
each other in a civil war, way back at the start of this mess.”

“Joe, you 
are being

too hard on yourself. It is easy to second-guess yourself, but you tell me you
can’t just dream up ideas on command. You didn’t have the idea to spark a civil
war when we were trying to stop that Thuranin surveyor ship, after your
vacation on Newark.”

“That’s the problem. I 
did
 have that idea back then,” I admitted.

“
WHAT
?”
His voice was thunderous in my tiny cabin.

“It’s true. After we left Newark you told me the
Fire Dragons were paying to send a Thuranin surveyor ship all the way to Earth
so they could avoid a civil war. Back then, my first thought was ‘Then we
should give those MFers a civil war’. That would have solved our problems,
right there.”

“Then why in 
THE
HELL
 didn’t we do that back then?” He screeched. “Crap, we had to stick a
dropship in a comet, and you almost fell into a planet and burned up. The only
good thing about that mission was you peeing in your pants.”

“I did not pee in my pants.”

“You sort of did, Joe.”

“Whatever.”

“You didn’t answer my question. 
WHY
 didn’t we go with the civil war
thing, instead of screwing around blowing up a Thuranin ship, and then trying
to ruin the Fire Dragon negotiations with the Ruhar?”

“Because I chickened out, Skippy. It’s that
simple. I thought that starting a civil war was too extreme, that it would get
me in trouble when we got home.”

“Well, it did, but you did it anyway. You did it
anyway, too late to avoid a whole lot of other problems. Seriously, little Joey
was worried that Mommy and Daddy would be mad if he started a civil war? Is
that it?”

“Basically, yeah.”

“Holy shit.” He stared at me, open-mouthed in
shock.

“The truth is, I was new to commanding a ship back
then, to 
commanding
 a team. Sparking a
civil war is a big, big deal. I didn’t know if the team, or me, were up to the
challenge. That’s why I didn’t mention it to anyone. The sad fact is, my
actions back then were driven by my lack of confidence in myself. I didn’t have
the courage to believe the Merry Band of Pirates could handle the job. All the
shit that’s happened since then is on 
me
.
This is all my fault.”

“O.M.G., dude. 
Whoa
.”
He was silent for a while. When he spoke again, 
in

was almost in a whisper. “Damn, Joe, how do you live with yourself, knowing
that your poor decision-making might cause the 
extinction

of your entire species?”

“If you haven’t noticed, I don’t sleep too well.”

 
“But we are
supposed to trust you to handle the job 
now
?”

“Do we have a choice? Is there anyone else you
think could do the job better? Please say yes. Because I don’t know if I can do
this again either.”

“No. There isn’t anyone else I can think of. Damn
it! We are screwed now! I don’t have the time or energy to break in a new
monkey. Whoo, wow. You got any other mind-blowing revelations to share with me
today?”

“Um,” I tried to think of something, anything, to
lighten the mood. “You know that Pavarotti guy you like to listen to, the opera
singer?”

Skippy’s eyes narrowed with suspicion. “What about
him?”

“He lip-synced the whole thing.”

The avatar’s hands flew to its mouth with a
shudder of anguished horror, and it faded out.

Finally, I could go back to bed.

As if I could sleep well that night, or any other night.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER SIXTEEN

 

“Sir?” Adams came into my office without knocking.
She could see I had my forehead resting on the desktop, so she wasn’t
interrupting anything.

In response, I mumbled something incoherent. It
had been a sleepless night, worse after my conversation with Skippy. Breakfast
had not appealed to 
me,
 I had not even gone to the
galley for a cup of coffee. Part of my avoiding the galley was I wanted to
avoid people. Until yesterday, the crew admired me, or acted as if they did.
Our triumphant Renegade mission had earned me respect. Even the special
operators often flashed a subtle 
thumbs-up

gesture to me, which was thrilling. Now I feared those same people would view
my last mission as a worthless stunt, nothing more than a brief stay of execution
for humanity and that it was all my fault.

Worse 
than

their accusing looks, 
was
 knowing they
were right.

“Hey, 
soldier
,”
she slapped the back of my head. And not playfully. “You aren’t authorized to
take leave. We are in a crisis.”

“We’re in a 
mess
,
and it’s my fault,” I mumbled back.

“We 
are

in a mess, and it 
is
 partly your
stupid fault, and the only way humanity is getting out of this alive is for you
to stop moping around feeling sorry for yourself, and 
do the fucking job
 the United States Army pays you so lavishly for.”

“Adams, I am really
not in the mood for-”

“Not. In. The. 
MOOD
?”
She was in 
full
 United States Marine
Corps gunnery sergeant mode. “What the hell kind of- Oh, boo fucking 
hoo
, everyone 
is being
 mean to poor little Joey. Hey, it’s a good thing you
didn’t try signing up for the Marine Corps, because Marines don’t give excuses
for-”

That got me angry enough to shove my self-pity
aside for the moment. I sat up in my chair. “Do not give me that inter-service rivalry
bullshit, Gunny. The Army expects just as much-”

“I know what the Army 
expects
, Sir.” She glared at me. It is possible the word ‘Sir’ had
never been spoken with less respect intended. The look she gave me was anything
but friendly. I had not just disappointed her, I had disappointed 
her
, if you know what I mean. “The Army
expects you to do your duty, even when you aren’t feeling up to it. You owe it
to humanity to put on your thinking cap, and get us out of this one.”

“Adams, thanks for the vote of confidence, but I’m
not avoiding the call of duty. I might be the wrong person for this particular
job.”

That made her pause to consider the situation. She
pulled out a chair and sat down. “How is that? Explain.”

“So far, we’ve been able to dodge bullets by
sneaking around and doing clandestine black ops stuff.” I looked her in the
eyes and shook my head. “The Maxolhx are sending a 
battlegroup
 to complete the mission to investigate our local
wormhole. Stopping a battlegroup is outside my skill set, Adams.” As I 
said
 ‘skill set’, a small part of my mind wondered when I
had started using buzzwords without being ironic about it. I used to be a guy
who hated buzzwords. I miss that guy.

“Maybe,” she agreed with an ever-so-slight tilt of
her head.

“Whatever we do, no matter how amazingly clever
our plan is,” I said, and right then I had zero 
idea

of what that plan could be. “It ends with a stand-up fight against a
senior-species battlegroup, and that’s a fight we can’t win. I don’t know if
I’m the right commander for a pure combat mission. Plus, it’s hopeless, we
can’t-”

“That’s not entirely true, Joe,” Skippy announced
with way more cheerfulness than was appropriate for the occasion, as his avatar
shimmered to life on my desk.

“What isn’t true?
You’re saying I 
am
 the right person
to-”

“Oh, no way, Dude. Sorry. You may not be the right
person for the job, even if it did only involve sneaky black ops shit. Our
situation is 
not
 completely hopeless.
You assume that the Maxolhx will send a battlegroup to Earth no matter what we
do out here. That is not true.”

Adams and I shared a look of surprise. And a
glimmer of hope. He had given me hope. If he was screwing with me, I was going
to drop him into a star. “How do you figure that?” I asked. “If this is just
you 
saying
 some happy bullshit to make me feel better,
then-”

“Make you feel
better?
 Why would I do that?” He asked, mystified. “Oh, right, that
stupid empathy shit. I forgot. No, this is no bullshit. Listen, numbskull, you
already gave the Maxolhx 
plenty
 of reason
not to go through the effort and expense of sending ships all the way to
Earth.”

“Yeah, I did, but then
Perkins screwed the whole thing up by-”

“I’m not talking about the cover story you cooked
up. That was totally brilliant, and it pisses me off that such an inventive
plan got blown, just because you failed to tell Emily Perkins what is going on
out here. Anywho, I am not talking about the cover story, I’m talking about
what we did to sell it.”

“Uhhh-” My mind was drawing a complete blank. I
had no idea what he meant.

“I’m 
talking
,”
his avatar jammed its tiny hands on its hips, “about when you asked me to make
other wormholes act crazy, to match the way I made the Earth wormhole go crazy.
That sold the idea that wormholes can become violently unstable, violent enough
to destroy a senior-species warship and severely damage another. That-” 

Adams interrupted him. “I think I know where
you’re going with this,” she said with a snap of her fingers. “Those other
wormholes you screwed with are close to Maxolhx territory.”

As she spoke, a lightbulb went on in my head. I
kept my mouth shut and let her talk.

“So,” she looked to me to see if I understood and
I nodded. She snapped her fingers again. “If the Maxolhx 
want
 to investigate why wormholes are acting strangely,
they don’t need to fly all the way to Earth.”

“Egg-
zactly
!” Skippy pronounced happily, not the
snarky way he usually said that. “Very good, Margaret. Hey, Joe, maybe 
she
 should be in command.”

“That would be fine with me.” I kind of wasn’t
joking about that.

“No way, Sir,” she folded her arms across her
chest. “You’re not dumping this on me. The UN assigned this command to 
you
.”

“Shit. All right, all right, all right,” I mumbled
while my mind was racing. “Okaaaaay, maybe we are not completely, a hundred
percent screwed. Yeaaaaaah,” I rubbed my chin while I considered the notion
that we might, just might, have a chance to stop a Maxolhx battlegroup from
ravaging our home planet.

Damn it. Giving up on the survival of humanity
sucked, but at least it was easy. Saving the world is 
hard
 work. I was not looking forward to another intense, agonizing
struggle. “Sure, the Maxolhx do not need to go all the way to Earth, if all
they want to do is examine the odd behavior of wormholes. 
But,

they believe that those ships were destroyed because they were going to Earth,
that someone wants to stop them from getting to Earth. I have no idea how we
can explain why those two Maxolhx warships were destroyed, without 
pointing a finger at
 us. What I do know is we
have some work to do, before we start making plans. We need to fly all the way
back to that Maxolhx relay station we boarded to plant the cover story on a
timer, so we can erase the cover story from its memory.”

“Oh, that is not a problem, Joe. We actually do not
need to go all the way back to 
that

particular relay station,” Skippy said, and he was so happy he didn’t bother to
throw in an automatic ‘
you
 dumdum’ at the end of his
statement. “Behold, the incomparable magnificence of 
ME
. Because you are a monkey and, let’s face it, not the smartest
of monkeys, I figured you might have screwed something up and would need to
change some details of the cover story. Therefore-”

We waited for him to continue, but his avatar just
stood there silently, moving just enough for us to know he wasn’t frozen or
suffering a blue screen.

Adams lifted her
eyebrows at me, so I said “Uh, is there more to-”

His avatar threw up his hands. “That was 
a 
dramatic
,”
he trilled the ‘R’, “pause, so you can contemplate just how incredibly awesome
I am. Anywho, I left a backdoor in the 
programming

of the AI that controls that relay station. All I need to do is transmit a
simple file through a relay station of any Maxolhx client species, and it will
update the cover story when it eventually reaches the target relay station.
That includes erasing the entire cover story. Which is what I assume you now
want to do, since that cover story obviously no longer matches the facts the
Maxolhx can verify.”

“Wow,” I looked at Adams and she nodded, as
impressed as I was. “Skippy, sometimes I realize that, as insufferably arrogant
as you are-”

“Hey!” He protested. “You jerk, I should-”

“Maybe you aren’t arrogant 
enough
,” I finished.

“Um. Say that again?” He asked suspiciously.

“I am a hundred percent serious, Oh Most
Magnificent One. You not only do awesome things when I ask you to, 
you
 also keep me out of trouble by doing incredible
stuff I didn’t even think to ask for. You truly are awesome beyond my
comprehension.”

“Oh, uh,” his avatar actually 
blushed
. I didn’t know he had programmed it to do that. “Well, I’m
stuck working with monkeys. 
Someone

has to think ahead on this ship. You are welcome. Even though you did not
actually say ‘Thank you’.”

“My bad. Thank you very much. You can erase the
cover story from the relay station AI’s memory, without it ever knowing you
screwed with it?”

“Yup. And I can do it through the Kristang relay
station we just contacted, although the file will reach its destination quicker
if we upload it to a station that is not so isolated.”

“Let’s do both,” I decided. “Upload the file here,
then fly to a less isolated Kristang station to do it again.” When Adams raised
a questioning eyebrow, I explained. “Approaching a second relay station is a risk,
but the 
Dutchman
 could break down at
any moment, or we could run into some other trouble out here. I don’t want to
leave this critical file to only one relay station.”

Skippy made a show of rubbing his chin. “While relay
stations overall are exceptionally reliable, anything built and maintained by
the Kristang must be considered suspect. My suggestion is we upload a file
here, then fly to a 
Wurgalan
 relay
station. That way, we will have two independent channels for delivery.”

“I like that idea,” I agreed, partly because the
Wurgalan overall were slightly softer targets than the Kristang, if we ran into
trouble with those Octopussies again. “When can you upload the file here?”

“The file is ready, we just need to jump back to
the station,” he blinked at me smugly with an implied ‘Duh’. “Also, Nagatha has
already plotted a course to a Wurgalan relay station that is four days’ travel
time from here, along a route that minimizes our risk. There is one
complication, Joe.”

“I’m sure there are a 
hundred
 freakin’ complications, Skippy. Which one do you mean this
time?”

“If we are potentially going into action against
the Maxolhx, we should top off the ship’s fuel tanks. The problem with 
that
 is, we should reserve our few
remaining Thuranin Falcon dropships for combat operations, so the
fuel-collection missions need to be flown by Kristang Dragon dropships. Dragons
are smaller and less capable than Falcons. Plus, like I warned the idiots at
UNEF Command, we have not practiced a refueling operation with Dragons. I 
wanted
 to test the new fuel-collection
drogue using Dragons at Jupiter, but UNEF said 
noooooo
, we didn’t need to
take that risk. Buncha morons.”

I sighed, feeling a headache coming on. “UNEF
assumed we wouldn’t need to refuel, because we were supposed to fly directly
back to Earth.”

“That’s not the real reason they didn’t want us to
practice refueling with Dragons, Sir.” Adams shook her head.

“It’s not?”

“No. UNEF figured if you had the option to refuel
out here, you would be more easily tempted into going on adventures UNEF
disapproves of,” she explained.

“Crap. You’re right. Well, we don’t have a choice
about it now. Skippy, give me a list of star systems where we could refuel, and
I’ll review it.”

“What’s next, Sir?” Adams asked as I stood up.

“Next? Right now, I have to tell this crew that
our last mission might have been for 
nothing
,
and now we’re in even deeper shit than we were before. And that we may need to do
this freakin’ Save the World thing all over again, because I am a short-sighted
idiot.”

She stood up also, taking a step toward the door.
“If you want my advice?”

“I’d appreciate it.”

“Leave out that last part. It’s not a big
confidence booster.”

 

 

Desai knocked on the doorframe to my office. “Do
you have a minute, Captain?”

“Sure, XO,” I paused the game I was playing on my
laptop. No, I was not playing video games so I could avoid thinking about the
enormous, impossible problem we had to deal with. I was playing games because
my subconscious mind is more creative when I’m doing something mindless. So, I
was playing Super Mario Cart to help me save humanity.

That’s my story and I’m sticking to it.

“Come in, sit down. And you don’t have to call me
‘Captain’,” I added with a smile.

“You called me ‘
Captain
 Desai’ long after I was promoted to Major,” her smile was
less jokey and more of a reprimand.

“That’s because I’m an idiot. Don’t follow my
example.”

“Got it, Sir,” she pulled out a chair and sat
down. “Gunny Adams told me the background of our current problem. I have a
question.”

I snorted. “If you only have 
one
 question, that would be fantastic.”

“One question for 
now
,” she arched an eyebrow to let me know I was not off the hook
yet. “You are hoping that, instead of sending a battlegroup to Earth to
complete the mission of the two ships you destroyed, the Maxolhx can stay close
to their territory and examine the wormholes that Skippy caused to act
violently.”

“Correct,” I confirmed. “There is a lot we have to
do, before the Maxolhx hopefully decide there is no reason for another mission
all the way to Earth’s local wormhole, but basically that is the idea.”

“I understand it’s not going to be easy. My
question is, why didn’t you do that the 
first

time?”

“You mean, why did we destroy those two ships,
instead of giving them a nice distraction to investigate closer to their home?
I keep forgetting that you, and Adams and a lot of people, were not with us
during our Renegade mission. We did think of trying that, but, um, hey Skippy?”

His avatar shimmered to life on my desk. “You
called?”

“Yes, and I know you were listening, so don’t
pretend you don’t know what the XO and I 
was

talking about. Can you fill her in on the subject?”

“Certainly,” he said with a gracious bow to the
ship’s executive officer. “Major Desai, we did consider distracting those
ships, but there were two reasons why that would not have worked. First, dumdum
Joe’s slow brain did not dream up the idea of making wormholes act violently until
very late in our mission. At that point, the two target ships had already
departed from their base, so by the time the Maxolhx leadership decided that
investigating local wormholes was good enough to cancel the mission to Earth,
those two ships probably would have already gone through the last wormhole and out
of communications range. The other problem is that those two specialized
long-range cruisers were supplied and controlled by the Maxolhx’s Technology
Research Group. The TRG has a long-standing and viciously jealous rivalry with
the Thuranin military’s own research organization, and TRG would very much not
like being told to stand down because the military could handle the wormhole investigation
much closer to home. The effort to modify ships for a mission to Earth was a
project that required diverting significant resources from other TRG projects.
As you know, once a large project acquires a certain momentum it is difficult
to stop, even if the original purpose of the project is no longer needed.”

She tilted her head and rolled her eyes. “No, that

never
 happens in the Indian
military.”

“Oh,” Skippy was taken aback by her comment. “I
think you are incorrect, Major. I do not mean any disrespect for your home
country, but I can provide numerous examples of-”

“Skippy,” I winked at Desai, “she 
was being
 sarcastic.”

“Oh. Hey, I knew that,” he sniffed. “Duh.”

“Sorry,” I mumbled, knowing it was best to play
along with him. “Did that answer your question, XO?”

She nodded. “It answered my 
first
 question, but now I have another. What makes you think the Maxolhx
will now be satisfied with analyzing wormholes closer to home, and not want to
send another expedition to Earth?”

“That’s not what we 
think
, it’s what we 
hope
,”
I admitted. “There are a 
couple
 factors
in our favor. Most important is the Technology Research Group is capable of
modifying a pair of their ships, but they don’t have enough ships of their own
to make a full battlegroup. So, the mission to Earth has been reassigned to the
Maxolhx military, and-”

Skippy finished for me. “Their military is not enthusiastic
about devoting resources to investigate odd behavior of Elder wormholes, which
they consider to be a minor curiosity rather than an immediate threat. They are
concerned about recent developments that 
could

be an immediate threat to the Maxolhx coalition. Over the past couple years, the
Thuranin were getting their asses kicked so badly by the Jeraptha, they were
forced into joint operations with their hated rivals the Bosphuraq. The
combined Thuranin-Bosphuraq offensive was producing results, until our friend
Admiral Tashallo of the Jeraptha 98
th
 Fleet not only seriously
kicked their combined 
asses
 in a
surprise attack, he got Bosphuraq and Thuranin ships to commit flagrant
treachery and fire on each other. Since that battle, cooperation between the
birdbrains and the little green MFers has been frozen, with both species separating
their war fleets and assigning ships to defend their territory against the
other side. Fighting between their two fleets has broken out in seven star
systems and around one strategically important wormhole cluster. This split,
between species who are supposed to be allies, has caused the Maxolhx to step
in, and weakened their entire coalition. The Maxolhx military therefore
believes they have better things for their ships to do, than fly all the way to
Earth so a bunch of egghead scientists can poke around a wormhole nobody really
cares about.”

“Well,” Desai tapped her front teeth with a
fingernail while she thought. “That does answer my question. Thank you, Mister
Skippy.” She knew the beer 
can
 
loved
 it when people called him ‘
Mister
 Skippy’. “Except-”

“Oh boy,” I groaned. “Yeah. Except that, right
now, the Maxolhx think those two ships were destroyed to stop them from going
to Earth. Unless we can think of a reasonable explanation for why the loss of
those ships had 
nothing
 to do with
Earth, 
and
 somehow sell that bullshit
story to the Maxolhx without them knowing we were involved, then they will be 
very
 interested in sending ships to
pound our homeworld into a radioactive cinder.”

“Yes,” she was satisfied that I understood her
concern. “Sir, where are we,” and by ‘we’ I knew she meant ‘Joe Bishop’, “on developing
a story to sell?”

“Working on it, XO,” I slumped in my chair.
“Working on it.”

 

 

I did work on the problem, so did everyone aboard
the ship, including Skippy and Nagatha. None of us had a plausible explanation
for why the destruction of the two Maxolhx cruisers could be unrelated to their
mission. None of us thought up an explanation, because there wasn’t one, and
there wouldn’t ever be one. We were screwed. Humanity was screwed.

No, I did not give up. I examined our options, and
determined we needed a backup plan, in case we couldn’t stop the battlegroup
from reaching Earth. Until we thought of a way to make the Maxolhx change their
minds about a second mission to Earth, the backup plan 
was
 the plan. For that backup plan, I worked with Nagatha and-

Speaking of Nagatha, she was almost fully back to
normal, although she 
insisted
 she was now 
better
 than before, so there was a new
definition of ‘normal’ for her. Whatever. What mattered to me was that she sounded
and acted like the old Nagatha, with the exception that she now slipped in bits
of salty language that startled me and made me laugh.

Nagatha being fully restored was the only good
news in an epically crappy week. To end the suffering of the crew, I called the
senior staff together. “I’ll make this short and simple. We are in major
trouble and we need to be realistic. The beta site might soon be the only place
in the Universe with living humans,” I swallowed hard when I said that. “There
aren’t enough people there, or aboard this ship, to make a viable population.
We can’t get more people from Earth, so I am taking the ship to Paradise. We
will bring people, 
humans
,” I added,
because ‘people’ had a broader definition now. “From Paradise to Avalon.”

People around the table looked 
at
 each other in surprise. 
Except for
 Smythe, who first shot a sharp and,
I thought, unfriendly and disapproving look straight at me, before turning to
look at the others. It seemed to me he was judging the reactions of his
colleagues. “Colonel,” he spoke first. “What precisely 
do
 you mean by ‘
bringing
’
people?”

Desai knew what he meant. “Sir, surely you do not
intend to reveal our secret to people on 
Paradise?
 We
have been ordered very specifically 
not

to do that. Not ever.”

“Those orders,” I reminded everyone, “were issued
by people on Earth, which is now cut off from us.”

Desai silently gave me a look that said I always
found an excuse to ignore orders. She was right about that, but every time I
ignored orders, I really 
did
 have a
damned good reason. At least, at the time I thought I had good reasons. Orders
issued on Earth were inflexible, and after we went beyond Gateway, we needed to
be flexible to survive. Not only to survive, 
we

had to be flexible to Save. The. World. Way back when I had first taken people
from Paradise to attack and capture a Kristang frigate, that had been a direct
violation of orders from Earth, for us to maintain loyalty and obedience to our
lizard saviors. Taking the risk of landing on Newark had been against orders.
So was landing on Paradise twice. Then there was the minor issue of us landing
on a Kristang planet and sparking a freakin’ civil war.

Oh, I also committed mutiny by stealing a
starship. Ignoring orders was kind of my thing, so really it is UNEF Command’s
fault for issuing orders they knew I was likely to view as suggestions. Totally
not my fault at all.

That’s my story and I’m sticking to it.

Smythe spoke before Desai could continue. “You do 
not
 intend to tell people who we are,
and why they should come with us?”

“It is, uh-” Damn, I suck at finding the right
words to express what I was thinking. “For the good of humanity,” I explained,
the words sounding lame and wrong even to me.

“Colonel,” Smythe’s unfriendly expression was back
on his face, and I saw his shoulders tensing, like he was preparing to do
something. Without realizing it, I pushed my chair slightly away from the
table. “Many crimes have been 
committed,
 under the justification
they were for the ‘good of humanity’. Hitler, Stalin, Pol Pot, they all said
they were doing the right thing.”

“Damn it,” Desai muttered under her breath. “We
are not talking about killing people, Smythe,” she left out his superior
officer’s rank. I encouraged a free exchange of thoughts in staff meetings, but
that was pushing it. Then my executive officer looked at me. “Is that correct?”

“Whoa. Smythe is correct. No, that’s wrong, I,
ugh. Let me explain, please. I will 
not

force anyone to leave Paradise against their will,” as I finished that
statement, I saw Smythe’s shoulders relax ever so slightly. “What I want to do
is contact Lieutenant Colonel Perkins directly, and tell her the truth. Her,
just her. One person. Her background is intel, and she has access to personnel
files. A lot has changed since the Force shipped out from Earth, but she might
be able to suggest which people are likely to come with us to Avalon.”

“So, you 
do

intend to tell the truth to people, these candidates who might join us,” Desai
concluded. “What happens to people who are told the truth, and do 
not
 agree with go to Avalon?”

That part of the plan was a huge problem, and I
had struggled with it. Huge, like, that problem was an elephant and it was
sitting on my chest. “The candidates will be vetted by Perkins before we
approach them with the offer-”

“Sir, respectfully,” Reed interjected, using the
tone that meant what she was about to say would not sound respectful at all.
“That is bullshit. You can’t put the burden of responsibility on Perkins. I
understand what you’re doing, 
but,
 Desai is right. We 
would
 be risking 
Earth
 if we tell people on Paradise the truth about us.”

“I am only considering this because Earth is 
already
 at maximum risk,” I explained
patiently. “The Maxolhx 
are
 sending a
battlegroup there, and there is 
nothing

we can do to stop them. That is already happening. If someone on Paradise can’t
or won’t keep their mouth shut, at this point that won’t change the
inevitable.”

“We don’t have to tell them the 
truth
,” Margaret Adams said with quiet
authority. When she spoke, people listened.

“How is that, Gunny?” I asked.

Smythe’s attitude toward her was not unfriendly,
but it was also not approving. “We should lie to them?”

“Not lie, exactly,” Adams said with the barest
hint of a shrug. “We don’t have to tell them the whole truth, just the
important parts. Sir,” she looked at me. “You need to talk with Perkins, face
to face, so she knows this is legit. No one else needs to know you are alive. Anyone
we ask to come with us to Avalon, all they need to know that humans have a
starship and a secure place to live. They do 
not
 need to know about Skippy, or screwing with Elder wormholes, or
even that we have access to Earth. 
Used

to have access to Earth,” she added.

“You expect people to leave the world they now
consider home, based on vague promises from someone they barely know?” Smythe
asked with an expertly arched eyebrow.

“It worked on 
us
.”
Adams pointed at Desai and herself. “It worked on all of us. 
We
 left Paradise based on vague promises
from someone we barely knew.” Now she pointed at me. 

“Ah, you’re right,” Desai made a faint shrug, and
avoided looking at me. “Yes, it did. Colonel Bishop’s line of, 
bullshit
,” she pronounced the word in a
way that made it sound elegant. “Was very persuasive.”

“I told as much of the truth as I could at the
time.” It was my turn to shrug. I didn’t do it as well as Desai. “Gunny, you’re
right, thank you. We can create a story that contains enough truth so people on
Paradise can make an informed decision, but not give away the fact that we came
from Earth, or that we have help from an awesomely magnificent ancient Elder
AI.”

“
That
 is
going to be tough,” Reed said partly to herself. “How do we explain not ever
having been on Paradise, if we’re supposedly not from Earth? We can’t say we’re
Keepers, UNEF-Paradise will have personnel records.”

“I can hack into computers,” Skippy finally joined
the conversation. “But I can’t hack people’s memories. Somebody down there
knows every Keeper who left Paradise.”

“Skippy is right,” I agreed, the wheels turning in
my head as I ran through options. “Hey, I remember that before the Force
shipped out to Camp Alpha, UNEF sent an advanced team ahead to scout the place.
There were rumors that other groups went other places, even to the White Wind
clan’s homeworld. We could claim to be one of those teams that never came
back,” I said with building enthusiasm. “Yeah. Something like, we were aboard a
Thuranin ship when our Kristang hosts tried to take over, and the aliens all
killed each other. That’s how we have a starship.”

Smythe did the eyebrow thing again. I needed to
take body language lessons from him. Maybe it was a British thing. “We expect
people to believe that humans, on their own, learned how to operate a Thuranin
ship, and keep it going all this time?”

“We can work out the details later,” I said, not
wanting reasonable objections to 
get
 in
the way of me cooking up a good story. “Besides, humans on Paradise have no
idea what it takes to fly a Thuranin ship. All they know is, Thuranin are
little green cyborg clones.”

“That is a good point,” Smythe agreed with a nod.
There might have been a hint of admiration in that nod, or maybe I just wanted
there to be. “Colonel, while I do not like the prospect of outright lying to
lure people to Avalon, I believe we must keep the overall situation in
perspective. The humans on Paradise were military. They are,” he actually
smiled, “used to being told only part of the truth.”

“That’s how we got suckered off Earth in the first
place,” I agreed bitterly. “All right, are there any objections to us setting
course for Paradise?”

The objection came from an unexpected source.
Margaret Adams. “That’s it, Sir?” She tilted her head and performed the 
best arched
 eyebrow of the day. “We are giving 
up?
 Just walking away from trying to save Earth?”

“No, Gunny.” What I had to say was important, so I
took a breath to give me time to get my thoughts squared away. “We are not ‘
just
’ doing anything. We are doing the
hardest thing we can 
do:
 facing a terrible reality. We
failed. No, 
I
 failed. The Maxolhx are
going to Earth, and with the blockade of Gateway, we can’t even warn people
back home. We are going to salvage what we can, no matter how much that hurts.”

“
It
 sure 
sounds
 like you’re giving up,” she
replied, and there wasn’t anger in her words. There was 
hurt
. She was disappointed in me, and that hurt her worse than
anything else I could have done. At that moment, I felt lower than a snake’s
belly. I regretted being alive. 

“Gunny, I can promise you that until the moment I
meet Perkins, I will try to think of an alternative. A way to keep the Maxolhx
away from Earth. I wish we could delay this decision, but our goal should be to
rescue as many people as we can off Paradise. That’s the thing we haven’t
talked about yet. The people down there who decide not to go, and the people we
don’t tell, they are dead. They are 
all

dead. When the Maxolhx get done destroying Earth, they will come for the humans
on Paradise. We may be deceiving people who volunteer for Avalon, but we will
also be saving their lives. The sooner we begin pulling people off Paradise,
the more people we can save.”

“Yes, until someone down there talks about what
they heard,” Desai warned. “Colonel, at some point, the Ruhar authorities will
notice the human population is declining.”

I knew she was right. “UNEF Headquarters will
notice also, maybe Skippy can help with that?”

“I can screw with their databases to obfuscate
matters,” he used a big fancy word that meant to obscure. “But there is a limit
to what I can do. However,” he made a sound like he was pausing to take a
breath. “Given the limited life-support capacity of the 
Flying Dutchman
, we can only take a few people with us on each trip
to Avalon. The human population will decline so slowly, it is certain that some
idiot monkey down there will get drunk and talk too much, long before the
authorities notice people are missing.”

“Well, that solves one problem,” I admitted. “Each
time we come back, we will need to listen carefully, to determine whether our
secret has been exposed. That will slow us down.”

“Oh, that’s not a problem, Joe,” Skippy announced
almost cheerily. “I can leave a 
submind

in the Ruhar computer system to monitor their communications, and of course the
Ruhar are listening to UNEF’s message traffic and phone calls. We can ping the 
submind
 upon return, and know instantly if the
coast is clear for us to approach”

“When do we start, Colonel?” Desai asked, but she
was looking at Adams with the corner of her eye. The sooner we started, the
sooner we would be to 
giving
 up on saving our
homeworld.

“We do not need to make a decision immediately.
Skippy says we should top off the fuel tanks before starting an extended
mission, and we need to think hard about the logistics of extracting people
from Paradise without being detected. If the hamsters have their strategic
defense satellite network complete, that complicates our planning.”

“True,” Skippy agreed. “It will take me a while to
hack into the sensor network. I will have to reestablish control each time we
return. This is going to be a pain in my 
ass
,”
he moaned.

“Yes,” I combined an eyeroll with a glare. “Glad
to hear you are focused on what is really important.”

“Says the monkey who doesn’t actually have to 
do
 any of this shit,” he grumbled.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN

 

We set a 
course

toward Paradise, every jump taking us toward the moment when I would violate a
direct standing order, and reveal to Emily Perkins that I was not dead like she
assumed. There would be no turning back, once we started asking people to leave
Paradise with us.

Along the way, partly because I wanted a cowardly
excuse to delay the inevitable, we stopped to refuel the ship. We didn’t have
the big Condor dropship with us, and we only one of them anyway. We 
used
 to have two, but then the Screw-up
Fairy visited us during a refueling op on the mission where we rescued Paradise
from a bioweapon. The next time we are visited by a fairy, I want it to be for
losing a tooth.

So, without a pair of Condors, I had to choose
between the less-capable Kristang Dragons that we had plenty of, or the
advanced-technology Thuranin Falcons. We were running low on Falcons also,
because an insane Elder AI attacked 
me and
Skippy
 while I was flying a Falcon during our Renegade mission. Skippy
and I survived, along with my pilot seat and a very small section of that
Falcon’s cabin, but the rest of it had become charged particles.

If I asked Geico for a quote on dropship
insurance, I would 
not
 be saving
fifteen percent.

Anyway, I decided to risk the Falcons to collect
the fuel we needed. If there was trouble during the refueling op, the superior
technology of those Thuranin spacecraft gave our pilots a better chance to
recover, and a better chance to survive. You might think I 
was being
 sentimental about the pilots, because
I am a pilot too, but you would be wrong. My reasoning was based on the
undeniable fact that we only had a few pilots aboard the ship, and we couldn’t
afford to lose any.

During our extended stay at Earth, Skippy had components
for an improved refueling drogue made, but we hadn’t tested it before we left.
UNEF did not want me to have the option of taking the ship on an unauthorized
joyride around the galaxy, so they didn’t want me easily refueling the ship.
The refueling went super slowly, beginning with testing at lower and lower
altitudes, before taking on raw fuel for real. With the much smaller capacity
of Falcons compared to Condors, getting the ship’s tanks topped off took a lot
longer than it should have.

Yet, by the time I no longer had an excuse to
delay going to Paradise, we still had no realistic plan for convincing the
Maxolhx that the destruction of their ships had nothing to do with their
mission to Earth
. Probably
 because our
attack on those ships 
was
 to prevent
them from going to Earth.

Going to Paradise was a huge risk, for 
both us and the humans there
. I was scared and,
I had to admit, I was also excited about meeting the Mavericks. When I met
Emily Perkins, I told myself that I would 
not

try to strangle her, for unknowingly ruining everything. Even according to
Skippy, the plan I dreamed up during our Renegade mission was, and in my 
head
 I heard this in dramatic movie announcer voice, The
Greatest Idea In The History Of The Universe.

Thanks to Emily Perkins earnestly wanting to be
Employee of the Month, that had all been for nothing.

Truthfully, although it would signal the beginning
of the end for Earth and the humans on Paradise, an immature little part of me
was looking forward to meeting her. Frequently, my thoughts drifted to imagining
what I would say to her on such a momentous occasion. Somehow, a simple 
Hey how you doin’
, was just not good
enough. I stood in front of a mirror, practicing various lines to use when I
met her, which shows what a moron I am, and how unfit I am to command a
starship.

Or maybe it just shows that I am human.

I’m going with that last one.

 

Another thing I struggled with was whether, even if
Perkins advised against it, I would contact Cornpone, Ski and Shauna anyway. Plus
Sergeant Koch, who had been our fireteam leader in Nigeria. I could not leave
them behind. I also struggled with the thought of meeting Jesse and Shauna
again. Those two were an item, based on the high-level summary Skippy provided
about their mission the planet Fresno, which had very nearly been a deathtrap
for them and all the humans in the Alien Legion. I figured that I didn’t have
time to read the summary, and that it wasn’t important compared to what the
Merry Band of Pirates were doing, and I was so, 
so
 wrong about that. But mostly, I avoided the summary because it
would be painful to read about people I used to know and still cared about.

And, I had to admit, I was jealous of Jesse and
Shauna. She didn’t belong to me, and if our relationship was meant to be, we
would have made it work. I liked Shauna a lot, and I think she enjoyed our
fling, but that was it. I was jealous because those two had a relationship,
just like I was jealous when I had learned that Count Smoochula had been playing
a furious duet of ‘Dueling Bedsprings’ with, well, with a surprising number of
women aboard the ship. Meanwhile, I couldn’t have a relationship aboard the
ship, and the few times I left the ship, I was surrounded by FBI agents for
security.

My life sucks.

 

To contact Perkins, I took our Panther hotrod
dropship, with Reed flying it. 
Thirty-nine

hours behind us was a group of dropships, as many dropships as we had 
pilots
 to fly, leaving only Desai and one other
pilot aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
. Those
dropships were all in stealth mode, and Skippy was confident he could establish
control over the Strategic Defense network around Paradise, but that only took
care of one problem. As Paradise was now a base for a battlegroup, there were
ships arriving regularly, and a ship jumping into the system would have sensors
Skippy could not yet control.

In addition to the problem of keeping the group of
dropships hidden while they flew through empty space, we had to get them down
to the surface, then back up and out of orbit. Because the surface of Paradise
was mostly ocean, the dropships could descend and ascend over areas that were
loosely monitored. There was still a lot of 
risk

involved, so I was not sleeping well while the Panther coasted toward the
planet, which had grown from a bright dot to a disc, then a disc big enough to
see clouds and land.

I desperately wanted to get back to playing Super
Mario Kart, or training to fly the Panther, or doing anything that took my mind
off our latest impossible problem. Skippy, however, was not letting me get away
with that shit.

“Hey, 
question

for you, Joe. What progress have you made toward dreaming up a plausible reason
for the Maxolhx to buy the bullshit idea that,” he chuckled. “The disappearance
of those two cruisers was 
not
 in any
way related to their mission to Earth?”

“Skippy, I can assure you that this particular solution-development
process is proceeding on schedule, compared to the other apparently-impossible
dilemmas we have successfully resolved,” I tried to add a note of confidence to
my voice, while I sulked on a couch at the rear of the Panther’s cabin.

“Uh huh,” he nodded, making his ginormous admiral’s
hat bob alarmingly as his holographic avatar perched on an armrest. “So, you
have 
no
 fucking clue how to do it?”

“Isn’t that what I just said?”

“Sure, except you tried to conceal your total
cluelessness in a bunch of bullshit buzzwords.”

“What can I say? At this point 
in
 
every

mission, we have no idea how to accomplish the objective. Yet, we always manage
to pull a workable plan out of our asses somehow.”

“By freakin’ 
luck
,
yeah. I’ve told you this before, dumdum, your luck is going to run out soon,
and karma is going to bite you on the ass. It’s only a matter of time. Could be

this
 time. Have you considered that on
our last mission, you used up whatever brilliant ideas you had left? Seriously,
on our last mission, you had an idea to make the Maxolhx think their ships 
did
 go to Earth, and that there is no
reason for them to send more ships to your miserable, monkey-infested mudball
of a planet. Like I told you, the astounding brilliance of your plan had me completely
flabbergasted by your genius. What are the odds that you can top that?”

“Thanks for the vote of confidence,” I shot a look
at him that I then realized he probably could not interpret. “
All
 our missions seem impossible at this
point, before we’ve had time to consider our options.”

“That’s what I’m trying to tell you, numbskull.
You don’t have any options. I thought our Renegade mission was impossible, and
you proved me wrong. This time, trust me, there is 
no
 way out for you monkeys. You are absolutely and totally doomed.”

“Skippy,” I was getting pissed at his gloominess.
“You have, like, 
no
 future as a
motivational speaker.”

“Hey, wait? How have you seen my line of
motivational posters already? They’re supposed to be a secret!”

“Uh, you created a
line of-”

“Yeah, I have a bunch of them.” He held up his
hands like he was framing a scene for a camera. “Like, ‘Failure: it 
is
 an option’. Or how about ‘Give up
now, you’re most likely going to fail anyway’.”

“How are those
supposed to 
motivate
 people? You’re
just telling them-”

“The 
truth
,
Joe. I’m telling them the truth, which is way more helpful than feeding them a
line of feel-good bullshit. Think about this: every corpse on Mount Everest was
once a highly motivated person. That didn’t do 
them
 any good, did it? The early bird gets the worm, right? Did you
ever think that maybe if the 
worm
 had
not been such a go-getter, it would have slept late and not been eaten by an
ambitious bird? But 
nooooo
, somebody motivated the worm to get
up early to eat dirt or whatever worms do.”

“I-” When I opened my mouth, I was going to
reflexively say something just because I didn’t like what he said. Then I had a
moment 
to actually think
, and found
myself surprised. “I actually cannot argue with you about that.”

“See? It’s much better for you monkeys to be
realistic about your limited chances for success. Or in this case, your extremely
slim chances for survival as a species.”

“What if I promised the Universe, or Karma or
whatever, that this is the last time I will try to get away with doing
something impossible?”

“Ha!” He laughed. “Don’t ask 
me
, Joe. I thought you monkeys were dead meat on our 
last
 mission. You are living on borrowed
time already.”

“Yeah,” I leaned my head back against the seat.
“What sucks is, I thought it was 
over
.
I thought we were done flying around doing crazy shit. Hell, I was worried that
I wouldn’t have anything left to do. You know, I lied to Adams.”

“What? 
You lied

to Margaret? Joe, you should be ashamed of yourself. Um, what specifically did
you lie about this time?”

“I told her I had not given up on trying to save
the world again, but that was bullshit. I 
have

given up. That’s why we’re flying to Paradise, instead of doing something that
might actually save Earth again.”

“If you are hoping I will say something
inspirational-”

“No! Your posters are enough, thank you.”

“I can’t argue against you giving up. However, you
owe it to Margaret to 
try
.”

“Right, I guess-”

“Even though it would be a total waste of time.”

“Can you try to help, instead of reminding me how
bad the odds are against us?”

“Oh sure,” he sighed. “What the hell, why not? Where
do you want to start?”

“Um,” I pulled open my backpack and got out a handful
of colored markers. “Adams would say I first need to define the problem.” On
the bulkhead above the couch, I wrote down my thoughts. “Step One, we need a
reason for the Maxolhx to believe the loss of their ships was 
not
 related to their mission to Earth.”

“Ha!” Skippy snorted. “Good luck with 
that
.”

“Are you helping or not?”

“Sorry,” he did look just a bit ashamed. “I guess
it will be more entertaining for me if you try really hard before, you know,
ultimately and inevitably failing. So, go ahead.”

“Thank you 
so

much. Ok, Step Two. Uh, I got nothing.” I put the cap back on the marker. Step
One was as far as I got, like all the other times I tried to tackle the
problem. He was right, it was impossible.

“Seriously, Joe? 
You
are
 giving up already? Try using logic. Here’s a hint; we don’t want the
Maxolhx to know that 
we
 blew up their
ships, so,” he paused. “Come on, Joe 
fill

in the blanks.”

“We need to blame the destruction of those ships
on another 
species?
 If it wasn’t us, it had to be
someone else. Great.” I thought for a moment. “We need to start with 
who
 would have a reason for stopping
those ships. A reason that was totally unrelated to their mission of going to
Earth, right?”

“No,” he shook his head sadly, disappointed. “You
need to start by considering which species is 
capable
 of destroying a pair of powerful Maxolhx warships. That
leaves only two candidates. 
Me
,
except you obviously can’t reveal my existence to the outside Universe. So, that
leaves only the Rindhalu.”

“Nope. We can’t frame the Rindhalu for this,” I
declared. “The spiders will know they didn’t do it, and they will be awfully
motivated to learn who set them up. We already picked a fight with one senior 
species,
 I don’t want to give both of them a reason to kill
us. Plus, we do not want to tangle with their Elder AI, remember?”

“Ok, good point. Well,” he chuckled nervously.
“That’s it, then. You are 
skuh
-
rewed
, Dude.”

“Oh, come on. That’s bullshit. There must be some
species in the galaxy that could pose a threat to two isolated Maxolhx ships. I
know none of the local aliens could do that, but this is a big galaxy. What
other species out there in the galaxy have technology as good or better than
the Jeraptha, for example?”

“Oh, there are half a dozen species like that.
There’s the Nordli, the 
Mjalmo
, the
Vestabolen, the Odensvik, the Sluuuurg,” he drew the word out. “And of course
the 
Songesturn
. None of them have-”

“Ok, good.” I took the cap off the marker so I
could write those names on the bulkhead. “We can start with that list and- Hey!”
I slapped the armrest he stood on, making him jump. “You 
ass
, you just randomly pulled those names from an Ikea catalog!”

“No I didn’t,” he insisted, his words less
convincing than the guilty look on his face.

“Yes you did, you little shithead. I helped my
sister move into a new apartment, and I had to put together bookcases she
bought from Ikea. There’s the Liatorp, the Brusali, the 
Advala
-”

“Joe you idiot!” He jumped up and down on the
desk, waving his arms frantically. “Don’t you know that if you recite the Ikea
catalog in the wrong order, you could 
accidentally

summon a demon?”

“Really?” I gasped, shocked. Although truthfully,
a part of my brain was thinking ‘how cool would that be’?

“
No
.
Ugh,” he was disgusted. “You are 
so

freakin’ gullible.”

“Can you please just answer my question?”

“Fine,” he rolled his eyes. “I could recite a list
of star-faring species across the galaxy, but that would be useless. The short
answer is, there are 
no
 species in
this galaxy who could pose a threat to a pair of Maxolhx warships, unless they sent
a large war fleet consisting of many capital ships plus support vessels. 
And
 they would need to get lucky anyway.
No way could any species conceal the movement of that many large ships. Plus
they would have to explain why many of their capital ships were lost in 
an undeclared
 combat action, because the
Maxolhx would hit back hard before they were destroyed
. 
If
 they were destroyed.
We used a sneaky trick with wormholes that 
no

current species is capable of deploying, and we still almost got our asses
kicked anyway. So, the answer is, there are no species in the galaxy known to
have technology that could threaten the Maxolhx, except the Rindhalu.”

“Shit.”

“Thus, 
like

I said, you are screwed.”

“I’m not giving up yet. Hey,” I snapped my
fingers. “Those ships we destroyed, they were not regular production ships,
right? This Maxolhx Technology Research Group had to take existing ships, and
modify them for the long trip to Earth?”

“Yeah, so?”

“Soooo, maybe when they built those special ships,
there was a 
design
 flaw. We don’t
have to explain who destroyed them or why, we can sell a cover story that those
ships simply blew up by themselves.” Damn, sometimes I am smart. I was very
pleased with myself at that moment. “See? Problem solved.”

“Um, I hate to harsh your buzz, but that is an
idea that could be fueled only by your profound ignorance. The modifications to
those ships were limited to increasing fuel capacity, providing the capacity to
refuel themselves, and removing weapons magazines to make room for spare parts
and additional sensor gear. None of those modifications would make those ships
especially ‘explodey’,” he used fingers to make air quotes. “Plus, knucklehead,
those ships were of two different base designs, and they were modified at
different shipyards. No way would the Maxolhx believe a single design flaw
caused the loss of 
two
 ships.”

“Shit.” Just as I was enjoying a magical moment,
the Universe took a dump on me. “I don’t suppose we could sell the idea that
those ships were lost in an 
accident?
 A natural
disaster, 
like
 they ran into a subspace
rip or something?”

“A subspace rip?” His mouth gaped open. “What do
you think this is, Star Trek? There are 
no

natural disasters that happen to Maxolhx starships, you moron. They’ve been
around long enough to know everything that is in deep interstellar space, which
by the way, is 
nothing
. It’s empty
like your skull, Joe. What, you want the Maxolhx to believe their ships ran
into a freakin’ iceberg?”

“No.”

“Then what 
is

your idea?”

I bonked my forehead on the bulkhead a 
couple
 times and mumbled “I don’t have one.”

 

 

Skippy did not wake me up at zero dark thirty that
morning, my own traitorous brain did that. I was having a dream where I was being
grilled by the entire United Nations General Assembly, with me of course 
having
 forgotten to wear clothes so I was naked
in addition to all my other screw-ups. They were asking me why I failed to stop
the Maxolhx battlegroup, and I was trying to explain we couldn’t blame the loss
of the first two ships on an accident or a design flaw, and that no species
besides the Rindhalu were known to have technology that could threaten a pair
of Maxolhx warships. The UN ambassadors or representatives or whatever they are
called, kept hounding me on that last point, and I just wanted the floor to open
and swallow me. The UN jerks kept asking me the same question over and over,
playing tough for the TV audiences back home. They asked-

I woke suddenly, automatically holding up a hand
to protect my head from the overhead cabinet that wasn’t there, because I was
aboard the Panther. The lights were dim, except for the bright glow coming from
the pilot console in front of Reed. “Skippy, you awake?”

“Of course,” his avatar appeared on a seat. “Why
are 
you
 awake at this hour? You
always bitch at me
 
when I wake you up
early.”

“This is important. Yesterday, you said something
like, other than the Rindhalu, there are no species in the galaxy that are known
to have technology that could threaten the Maxolhx, right?”

“Ugh,” he facepalmed himself. “Are you seriously
suggesting there may be some super-powerful species out there that 
I
 don’t know about? That is the lamest
thing you have ever-”

“No, that’s not what,” I tried to stifle a
jaw-stretching yawn, “I’m thinking. All species want to climb the technology
ladder however they can, right? Clients like the Thuranin would 
love
 to have technology that could
threaten the Maxolhx, and they would keep quiet while they developed that
capability. Because they know the Maxolhx would give them the beat-down if they
found out their obedient little clients were plotting to overthrow their
masters.”

“Well, yes, duh.” Maybe he was also sleepy at that
hour, because he didn’t really put much effort into that ‘duh’. “What is your
point?”

“My point is that it doesn’t matter what 
you
 know or don’t know about the
technology level of every species in the galaxy. You are pretty much freakin’
omniscient, you know 
everything
.”

“Well, thank you,
but-”

“What matters is what the 
Maxolhx
 know, or 
don’t 
know,
about the advanced technology possessed by other species. Especially because any
species that 
obtains
 such technology would
logically try to keep it secret.”

“I’m not following you, Joe.”

I explained what I was thinking. He argued with
me, tried to poke holes in my logic, and generally was a pain in my ass for the
next hour. That was good, because he pointed out problems with my plan and
worked with me to fix the issues. By the end of the hour, I was barely able to
keep my eyes open, and we agreed we had a decent plan to present to the crew.

“What are you going to do now, Joe?” He asked.

“Now? I’m going to talk with Reed.”

I went forward and strapped into the copilot seat.
Reed looked at me questioningly, because I normally didn’t strap in unless the
Panther was about to maneuver.

“We 
going
 somewhere,
Sir?” She asked, stifling a yawn.

“Yes,” I announced, and her reaction made it clear
she had not expected that answer. “Plot a course to take us away from Paradise,

someplace
 where the 
Dutchman
 can safely jump in to pick us up. I want all dropships
retrieved at the same time and place, so you will have to coordinate with the
ships behind is. No one is to compromise stealth.”

She activated the navigation system. Skippy could
have done the math in a heartbeat, but I wanted Reed to have the practice.
Plus, I trusted her judgment more than I trusted Skippy’s. “Can I ask why we
are aborting this mission we spent so much time planning and preparing to execute?”
There was a beat before she added “Sir?”

“It’s because, Fireball,” I used the callsign she
hated, “I dreamed up a plan to maybe, 
maybe
,
get us out of this mess.”

“Yeah,” Skippy chuckled. “This time, Joe, you
really did 
dream up
 a plan.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN

 

By the time we all got back to the ship, it was
the middle of the night and no one had gotten much sleep while we prepared for
the rendezvous. I called the senior staff together for a meeting at Noon, so
our minds would be fresh. The nine-hour delay gave me time to eat a quick
breakfast, go to the gym, get caught up on status reports and generally reconsider
the plan I had cooked up. By Noon, I had not found any major flaws in the idea,
which was still pretty rough.

By ‘senior staff’ I meant Desai, Smythe, Reed, Adams
and this time, Frey. Katie Frey technically was not a senior 
officer

and neither was Adams, but they both had served with me on previous missions,
and I wanted their input. My thinking was, the more people there to poke holes in
my idiotic idea, the better. We couldn’t afford to leave anything to chance. We
all got drinks and sandwiches from the galley, and I took a minute to consider
the people under my command. Two thoughts struck me. First, the six of us had
been through a 
whole lot
 of shit
together. Desai and Adams had broken out of a Kristang jail with me. Reed had
joined us on our very long third mission. Even Frey, who became a Pirate during
our Renegade mission, had extensive experience with the team, including her
being the person who first advised a nuclear strike on Dayton Ohio. The five
people seated at the table with me knew how I thought, and they knew all the
crazy crap that could go wrong on even a simple mission.

My second thought, as I looked from one curious
face to another, was how diverse our group was. 
Four
women and two men, which was very different from most human military teams.

We had people from the USA, India, Britain and Canada. And the Merry Band of Pirates
had been 
kicking ass
 across the
galaxy for years now, without aliens having any clue we even existed. I hoped
to keep it that way.

“You all know our current situation,” I began.
“The Maxolhx now know their two ships never made it to the last wormhole, and
they are alarmed and pissed off. They are sending a full battlegroup to Earth,
because they logically assume the destruction of those ships was related to
their mission to our homeworld. We need to give them an alternate explanation
to that assumption, so they think those ships were blown up 
for a reason that
 had nothing to do with
Earth.”

Smythe gave me another raised eyebrow, which I
took to mean ‘how the hell do you plan to sell that dodgy line of bullshit’?

“We need to provide an alternate explanation for
why those two ships were destroyed, including 
who
 did it, and why. So,” I took a breath and avoided the skeptical
eyes staring at me. “We are framing the Bosphuraq for the deed.” I expected
people would ask questions about my latest out-of-the-box thinking.

“Sir,” Desai said slowly, after looking around the
table to see the reactions of other people. “Are the Bosphuraq capable of
destroying two Maxolhx cruisers?”

“Very good question, XO. The birdbrains are indeed
not capable of doing the deed. Not with the technology they are 
known
 to have. That’s the point.”

Frey, being the new kid, waited for others to
speak, then she asked the obvious question. “Colonel, if they have technology
that 
we
 don’t know about, then how-”

“They actually do not have technology that can
threaten their patrons, but the Maxolhx don’t know that.” I let that thought
sink in, before I continued. “Originally, I worried that we would need an
elaborate operation to plant evidence the Bosphuraq were the culprits, but
fortunately, Skippy reminded me that wasn’t necessary. All the evidence we need
is 
already out there
, we only need to
help the Maxolhx connect the dots. Remember that star system where we
infiltrated a Bosphuraq moonbase? Uh-” With embarrassment, I remembered Adams
and Desai had not been with us on the mission. They both nodded, so I
continued. “That was where they were trying to develop atomic-compression
technology, to match their rivals the Thuranin. 
But
,
 we also know that 
star
 system was previously used by the Maxolhx
to replicate Elder technology for manipulating and disrupting stars. Our story
will be that the 
real
 reason the
Bosphuraq took over that star system was to continue the research of the
Maxolhx, and that the atomic-compression project was just a cover for what the
birdbrains were really doing there. There are several factors working in our
favor, to help sell that story to the Maxolhx. Skippy intercepted
communications of both the Thuranin and the Maxolhx, in which both species were
basically disdainful of the Bosphuraq for making such slow progress on creating
atomic-compression warheads. The Maxolhx speculated that the birdbrain’s
research efforts were 
so
 incompetent,
they suspected the effort was being sabotaged either internally, or by an
outside force like the 
Thuranin
. That
slow progress helps us sell the story that the Bosphuraq were never serious
about atomic-compression, because their real effort was focused on 
a more
 powerful technology. A technology that 
could
 threaten their patrons.”

Desai asked the first question. “How would that
secret research project explain why the Bosphuraq took the enormous risk of attacking
ships of their patrons?”

“Good question,” I took a sip of iced tea while I
composed a reply. “Skippy and I worked out the details while I was aboard the
Panther. We not only have an explanation for 
why
 the Bosphuraq destroyed those ships, 
we can
 explain 
how
 they
managed to kill two warships with vastly superior technology.” On my tablet, I
pulled up a star chart and projected it on a bulkhead. “The blue line is the
actual course of the ships we destroyed. The mission commander was given wide
authority to choose a course to the final wormhole, so even the Maxolhx do not
know exactly where their ships were flying. The red line,” which was now
projected when I tapped an icon on my tablet, “shows an alternate course those
ships 
could
 have flown, from their
base to where we intercepted them. If those ships had continued flying from the
site of the battle we fought, those ships could easily have passed close to the
star system where the Bosphuraq had the atomic-compression research facility.
Our story will be that the Bosphuraq feared the whole flight to Earth was a
smokescreen for the true purpose of those ships: to seize control of the
moonbase and take all the research the Bosphuraq had developed. To prevent
that, the Bosphuraq destroyed those two ships. They were capable of killing two
senior-species ships because the birdbrains were successful in developing
technology that can create rifts in spacetime. If, or
 when
, the Maxolhx examine the data from our actual battle, they
will clearly see the first ship was torn apart by a spacetime distortion, a
technology that is beyond the capability of even the Maxolhx. As a bonus, our
actions at the moonbase help sell the story. The story will be that the
Bosphuraq blew up their own moonbase, the two orbiting 
battlestations
 and the research facility on the planet, to cover up
any evidence they had developed technology that is banned by their patrons.”

“Holy shit,” Desai gasped. I had rarely heard her
curse, so it startled me. “That is a wild story, Sir.”

“I admit it is kind of
a-”

She waved her hands. “You misunderstand me, Sir. It
is wild in a 
brilliant
 way. The facts
all fit the story, if we sell it the right way. Congratulations. I thought
there was no possibility that we could prevent a Maxolhx battlegroup from
reaching Earth. Your idea means they will not want to send ships to Earth.”

“Um, I have a question, Sir?” Frey raised a hand,
and I nodded for her to speak. “You said the Maxolhx 
will
 examine sensor data of the actual battle we fought, eh? Won’t
they also see 
this
 ship? They know
this ship is not a Bosphuraq vessel. From what I read about your Zero Hour
mission, the Maxolhx know a ship of this basic configuration is the mystery vessel,
that is suspected of manipulating Elder wormholes.”

“Also a good question,” I acknowledged. “Skippy,
can you handle this one? I had the same fear, but Skippy set me straight.”

“No problemo, Joey,” his avatar shimmered to life
on the table, between two trays of sandwiches. “Fear not, mon 
cheri
,” he winked affectionately at our
Canadian special operations soldier
. Who

Skippy had a crush on, whether he denied it or not.

“I’m not 
French

Canadian, eh?” She protested mildly. “I’m from Ontario, and I grew up near Erie,
New York.”

“My apologies,” Skippy bowed low. “Yes, photons
from the battle have been expanding outward in a bubble at the speed of light.
Especially high-energy photons from the explosions when the second ship
intercepted our missiles and then when, you know, my astonishing awesomeness
vibrated that second ship apart. Fortunately, the spacetime distortion created
by overlapping wormholes is also expanding outward in a bubble. 
But
,” he lifted a finger for emphasis,
“the bubble of that spacetime ripple has been 
slowing
 since it was created. Photons from subsequent events,
including our battle with the second ship and the 
gamma ray
 burst when the 
Dutchman

jumped away, caught up to the spacetime ripple, which was so chaotic that those
photons became a disorganized mess. Anyone attempting to make sense of the
battle by observing the photons will get 
zero

useful information.”

“Um,” Frey raised her hand again
. Which
 she did not need to do. Maybe Canadians
can be 
too
 polite sometimes. “If the
Maxolhx can’t get any useful sensor data from the battle, how are they supposed
to reach the conclusion that the Bosphuraq were the culprits?”

 
“An
excellent question,” Skippy beamed at Frey. “When information is delivered to
the Maxolhx, about the weapon the Bosphuraq supposedly developed, the
information package will contain details that allow the Maxolhx to interpret
the chaos of the spacetime ripple. They will interpret the data in the way 
we
 want them to.”

“But,” Desai looked around to judge whether anyone
else had identified a flaw in the plan. “Will not giving such information to
the Maxolhx help them develop their own version of a spacetime distortion
weapon, which could threaten us, and possibly upset the balance of power
between them and the Rindhalu?”

“No,” Skippy chuckled. “The opposite will occur.
There is no such weapon for distorting spacetime. The details in the
information packet will be 
total

bullshit,” he snickered. “But of course the Maxolhx won’t know that. They will clearly
see that a spacetime distortion tore apart one of their ships and damaged
another. They just 
won’t
 know what
actually happened; that we used overlapping wormholes. Trying to understand the
bullshit data we feed them will throw Maxolhx research efforts down a dead-end
for hundreds, maybe thousands of years. It will drive their scientists crazy
and cause all kinds of disruption. Oh,” he laughed. “I am 
such
 an asshole sometimes.”

Heads nodded around the table and people were
quiet, as they absorbed the impact of how I planned to frame the Bosphuraq for
something we did, give the Maxolhx a solid reason 
to 
not
 send ships to Earth
,
and give the Maxolhx just cause to pound their Bosphuraq clients back to the
Stone Age. That last part was a bonus that would significantly weaken the
Maxolhx coalition in the Orion Arm, reducing the overall threat to both Earth
and the human population on Paradise. Yes, our actions would likely result in thousands
of innocent Bosphuraq being punished for something they not only didn’t do, but
they had no knowledge of. Yes, I did feel a little bit guilty about that. 
But,
 Skippy was right, sometimes it feels 
good
 to be an asshole. Besides, in the galactic
ranking of asshole behavior, the Bosphuraq 
have

a huge lead over humans on nefarious acts. So, fuck them.

It was Adams, of course, who first saw the part of
the plan that I had not mentioned, because it was kind of a glaring hole in my
overall scheme. “Sir,” she did not raise a hand to get my attention. “You and
Skippy talked about ‘delivering’ an information package to the Maxolhx, with
all the details of this fairy tale you are spinning for the rotten kitties. You
don’t mean 
we
 are delivering this
package,” she cocked her head. “Right?”

“Er,” I looked at Skippy and he put on his best
innocent face, 
letting
 me answer the
question. “No. We were, are, still working on that part. We not only need to
think of a way to deliver the info, 
we
 also
need to decide who the package supposedly came from. It needs to be someone
credible or the Maxolhx will ignore it.”

“It also,” Smythe added. “Needs to come from
someone who plausibly 
could
 know
about this super-secret weapon development project. If the data is delivered by
the Ruhar, that is just not believable.”

“Yeah, exactly,” I
admitted. “That’s why I said we’re still working on-”

“That part is easy,” our new chief pilot Reed
spoke for the first time. She looked at me. “Colonel, did you ever get in
trouble with your parents, when you were little?”

“Well, sure,” my face grew red as I recalled embarrassing
incidents.

“There are three ways you get in trouble,” she
leaned forward, elbows on the table and ticked off the possibilities on her
fingers. “One, your parents catch you doing it. Which,” she looked around with
a grin, “only happens if you are a total moron. Two, you feel so guilty that
you confess. Again, total moron.” That comment was greeted by grins around the
table. “Or 
three
, you get ratted out
by one of your siblings. That last one is what usually happens.”

“My sister,” I ground my teeth together. “
Loved
 telling my parents when I did
something wrong. Ok, so sibling rivalry. What is your idea, Reed?”

“Simple. The info package will supposedly come
from the 
Thuranin
. They would be thrilled
to rat out the Bosphuraq. Plus, it makes sense the Thuranin might have
conducted a 
surveillance
 of the Bosphuraq
effort to build atomic-compression warheads, and that explains how the Thuranin
knew about the project to develop spacetime distortions as a weapon,” she leaned
back, feeling well pleased with herself.

“I like it,” I agreed. “Good thinking, Reed. Does
anyone else 
have
 a comment?”

“The information could come from the Bosphuraq,” Smythe
suggested.

“The 
Bosphuraq
?”
Desai asked with a look of confusion. “Why would they tell their patrons about
crimes their own people committed?”

“Because,” Smythe ignored the skeptical looks he
was getting. “One thing we know about the Maxolhx coalition, is that the
various species devote more energy to stabbing each other in the back, than
they do fighting clients of the Rindhalu. 
And
,”
he paused for effect. “some of their greatest rivalries are within their own
species. To sell this, as you say, 
bullshit

story,” he smiled, knowing the rest of us found his pronunciation of that curse
word amusing. “The information must come from a source who plausibly could have
detailed access to the project. It occurs to me that, if the Thuranin had such
data, they would keep it to themselves so they could develop their own
spacetime distortion weapons. For the Thuranin certainly could use access to
such information to gain an advantage on their rivals the Bosphuraq. But, by
telling the Maxolhx, they would be revealing that the Thuranin potentially also
possess dangerous knowledge.”

“Shit,” Reed groaned. “Smythe is right, Colonel.”

“You’re 
both

right, Reed. If the Bosphuraq tattle on themselves, that is really 
sibling
 rivalry. The 
Thuranin
 are more like cousins. Ok, Smythe, I
like that even better. Not only will the Maxolhx come down hard on the
birdbrains, but the idea that one Bosphuraq group ratted out another will tear
them apart internally. That is pretty freakin’ brilliant.”

“Yes, but is it realistic?” Desai inquired. “Would
one group of Bosphuraq risk bringing hellfire down on their entire society,
just to serve an internal rivalry?”

Skippy answered that one for me. “Oh, believe it,
sister. They would 
totally
 do that in
a heartbeat.”

Desai shook her head sadly. “It is sad to think any
people would hate their own kin enough to betray their whole civilization.”

“It doesn’t have to be that way,” I was surprised
by my own words. “Sure, we can use the internal rivalry angle against them, but
the motivation for telling the Maxolhx does not have to be only based on hatred
of rivals. Imagine this,” I snapped my fingers while I thought, a bad habit
that I had unconsciously picked up from Brock Steele. “One group of Bosphuraq
insists on pursuing research into dangerous technologies, that can only lead to
a confrontation with the Maxolhx. There is a secret debate within a certain
level of Bosphuraq society, and the research group is authorized to proceed
under strict conditions. The researchers ignore the restrictions, conduct
dangerous experiments, and when they think their activities are about to be revealed,
they use the weapon to attack a pair of Maxolhx ships, and destroy their own
research facilities. Another group fears the rogue researchers will bring the
wrath of the Maxolhx down on all Bosphuraq society, so they try to preempt that
event by pointing the finger at the rogue group. Skippy, is there a particular science
organization of the Bosphuraq that would be involved, if they really were
trying to develop spacetime distortion weapons?”

“Oh, sure, Joe.” He bounced on his toes with
enthusiasm, making his oversized hat flop around. “It’s the same sack of
assholes who were building atomic-compression warheads. So, bonus, it already
looks like those shitheads did blow up their own research facility. That name
of that group translates as the Practical Applications of Science Administration.”

“PASA?” I said it like ‘NASA’.

“Hey, it’s 
their

name, Joe, I didn’t make it up. Plus, in case you need another reason to hate
the assholes in PASA, I strongly suspect 
they

originally created the bioweapon that the Kristang planned to use for wiping
out the population on Paradise.”

“Oh,” Desai sucked in a breath. “Then 
fuck
 them. Colonel,” she looked at me
with fire in her eyes. “If our story causes the Maxolhx to hunt down and kill every
last one of these PASA scientists, I will not lose any sleep over it.”

“Me neither,” Skippy added cheerily, although he
of course did not need sleep. “So, are we agreed? We only need to fill in the
details of the information package, and how exactly we deliver it to the
Maxolhx?”

“I think so,” agreed. “Any objections or suggestions?”

Adams had another suggestion. “If we point the
finger at a real group of Bosphuraq, they will certainly know they didn’t do
it.
  
Could the package be delivered
anonymously?””

“Good point, Gunny,” I mused. “Making it anonymous
means the birdbrains will tear themselves apart trying to blame each other,
Damn,” I broke into a grin and clapped my hands to celebrate our triumph. “This
gets better and better.”

 

We spent another two hours refining plans, setting
another meeting for the next day to review the final info package, which Skippy
was creating. At my insistence, he grudgingly assented to Nagatha reviewing the
package before presenting it to us humans. It would contain technical details
no filthy monkey could understand anyway. After the meeting broke up, Adams
helped me carry the trays of dirty cups and dishes back to the galley. “What’s
wrong, Gunny?” I asked while we walked down the passageway. “You don’t look
like your usually bubbly, happy self.”

“I am never ‘
bubbly
’,
Sir,” she glared at me.

“Ok, my bad. But you look like you just learned that
your puppy prefers to sit on someone else’s lap.”

She set her tray down and I jostled mine against
the countertop, dropping several spoons onto to the deck. Adams and I both bent
down to pick up the utensils, almost bumping our heads. We were crouched down,
faces inches apart, and my hand closed over hers as we reached for the spoons. We
looked at each other. Wow, she has long, beautiful eyelashes.

Yes, that is an odd thing to think about right
then.

“Um,” I kept my hand on hers for a moment too long,
just long enough for it to be awkward.

“I’ve got it, Sir,” she looked away.

I pulled my hand away, dropping a spoon I already
picked up. Then I stood up, leaning back to avoid brushing against her. I would
not have minded touching her, I wanted her to know I wasn’t going to do it
unless she wanted me to.

“A puppy?” She asked, still not looking directly
at me as she put the spoons in the proper bin.

“I 
meant,
 you look
disappointed about something.” Right then, I wanted to be anywhere 
else
 but I couldn’t just walk away.

“Oh,” she glanced at me then concentrated on
stacking dishes. “When I heard this Colonel Perkins had screwed up everything
you accomplished on your last mission, Sir, I thought that was it. Game over. I
read the after-action report on your Renegade mission-”

“The real report, or the bullshit sanitized
version that UNEF used for the briefing packet?”

“The real one. Skippy gave it to me, before I came
up to the 
Dutchman
 to serve as XO
while the ship was in a thousand pieces. Anyway,” she took a breath while we
stacked the trays and dirty dishes in a bin. It looked to me like she was
making up her mind about something. “Sir, we, especially Skippy, give you a lot
of shit. Most of it you deserve,” she shot me the side-eye to gauge my
reaction. “
But,
 Skippy told me your plan to stop the
Maxolhx was 
the
 most creative,
inventive, clever and brilliant plan he ever had the pleasure of witnessing.”

“Gee, thanks, I-”

“I agree with him, Colonel. Your Renegade mission
was the definition of impossible, but you did it anyway.”

“Thank you, Gunny. I sense a ‘but’ in there
somewhere?”

“It’s not what you think. I missed that mission,
missed the action, and I missed your usual thinking process of agonizing over
how impossible the task is, until you sink into despair and self-loathing.”

“You sure missed a 
lot
 of that,” I admitted. “Right up to the end, we were making
plans to plant a cover story, without know how, or if, we could destroy those
ships.”

“You did it anyway. So, this time, when we have to
stop an entire 
battlegroup
, I thought
we were fucked for sure. Even if we are able to destroy that many ships, no way
could we explain their disappearance was not related to their mission to Earth.
The Maxolhx would never buy that story a second time. 
But,

now you have a plan, a plan 
that is maybe

as ingenious as your last mission, and we hopefully won’t need to fight that battlegroup
at all.”

“Uh huh,” I said with suspicion as I poured a mug
of coffee for her. “Somehow I sense you are not entirely happy about this.”

“Well, Sir,” she looked at the deck, embarrassed.
“We only just learned about what Perkins did, and about the battlegroup. Now we
already have a plan, a damned good plan.”

“And that is a 
bad

thing, Adams?”

“No, it’s good. It’s great. It’s just, Sir,” she
winked at me. “I kind of miss the part where you mope around hating yourself
for weeks.”

“Oh,” I exploded with a laugh of relief. “How
about if I hate myself for some other reason?”

“I’d appreciate it, Sir,” she laughed, and we
clinked coffee mugs to toast the idea.

 

 

After what I considered a triumphant meeting, I
was feeling really, really, super good about our plan and, I have to admit,
about myself. We had a very good chance to avoid Armageddon, by blaming our
previous brilliant operation on another species. Maybe Skippy is right, I
should consider applying for a job as a criminal mastermind. I wonder if that
field has a good health plan?

Anyway, I was soaring high on optimism, until
Skippy decided to be the wind beneath my wings. Except he was above my wings,
and it was a lead weight rather than wind. “Hey, Joe, I hate to harsh your
buzz, but-”

“Oh, bullshit!” I exploded, and slapped the 
desktop
 hard enough to make my hand sting. “You

love
 to ruin my day when I’m feeling
good.”

“Well,” he chuckled, “that is kind of my thing,
you know. Anywho, to sell the bullshit story of the Bosphuraq conducting
dangerous and banned research, and that they destroyed those two Maxolhx ships,
there are a 
couple
 things we need to do
first.”

“Of course there is,” I slumped in my chair. The
reflection of my face 
in
 my dark laptop
screen showed I was pouting. I didn’t care, I freakin’ 
deserved
 to pout. “What impossible task do we need to accomplish
this time? Steal another batch of pixies?”

“No, nothing as difficult as that.”

“Really?”

“For 
realz
,
dude. These tasks will be comparatively easy, though still significantly risky
in this piece of 
crap
 ship we’re flying. First,
we are selling the story that the Bosphuraq were conducting spacetime
distortion research, in the star system where they were trying to develop
atomic-compression warheads.”

“Sure, but the research facility on that planet
blew sky-high. There’s nothing left of it. Part of it rained down on that 
moon
 orbiting that planet, Skippy.”

“Yes, and the violence of the explosion does help
sell the story. However, the Maxolhx will look for subtle evidence of
distortions in the quantum grid underlying spacetime in that area. If they
don’t find any, they will know the Bosphuraq have not really attained the level
of technology we need to sell our 
story
. They
won’t find any, 
unless
 we go back
there, and I create some ripples in the convection zone of the star there.”

“You can do that? Won’t the Bosphuraq see the star
acting strangely and look for what is causing-”

“Yes to the first question, 
duh
. Of course I can do that, I am Skippy the Magnificent. No to
your second question. The effect I plan to create will be 
subtle
, Joe. The Bosphuraq will not understand what is happening,
they might not even detect the effect, until it bubbles up into the photosphere.
But it will be convincing evidence to the Maxolhx.”

“Ok, you sold me. We need to sneak back into that
system, so you can screw with the star. How close do you need to be?”

“That is a problem. Close, like really close.
Close enough that the 
Dutchman
 will
be visible despite our stealth field. Also close enough that, if 
anything
 goes wrong aboard this used
bucket of bolts, the ship will burn to a crisp. The worst part is, to ensure
the effect I create is truly subtle enough to convince the Maxolhx, I need to
be close to the star for an extensive time. We can’t just jump in, swing past
the corona and jump away.”

“Ok, fine, so it 
is
 freakin’ impossible. I’ll think about it. What is the other
thing we need to do, to frame the Bosphuraq?”

“We need to go back to the battle site, clean it
up, and plant evidence.”

“What does that mean?”

“Pieces of the 
Flying
Dutchman
 
were
 torn off during the
battle, and are still floating out there. Those parts are not only distinctly
Thuranin in origin, 
there is
 at least a
small possibility might be identified as belonging to the mystery ship that the
Maxolhx suspect has been screwing with wormholes. We need to track down that
debris cloud, and vaporize it beyond recognition.”

“All of the pieces?”

“Yup.”

“And we can do this, in reality and not in some
fairy tale? The ship got thrown around by a spacetime ripple, and I remember
you giving me a battle damage assessment that was, like, a hundred freakin’
items long. How are we supposed to 
find

all that shit?”

“If by ‘we’ you mean the barrel of monkeys on this
ship, then it 
is
 impossible.
Fortunately, 
I
 kept track of the precise
vector of each part that broke off, from thin layers of armor plating around
the main reactor, to big components like sensor antennas. I know the exact
direction and speed of each item that broke away. Factoring in the quantum
effect of the spacetime distortion caused by the overlapping wormholes we used,
I can predict the location of each item within, oh, three thousandths of a
meter.”

“Holy shit.” Sometimes I forgot just how awesome
Skippy truly was. “How many pieces do we need to vaporize?”

“One thousand, nine hundred and 
eighty seven
.”

“Almost two 
thousand
?
That we have to chase down and hit with a 
maser

cannon? That will take until the end of time!”

“If you were doing it, yes. Fortunately, I have a
plan. Anywho, that is the 
easy
 part.
In addition to removing debris from the 
Dutchman
,
we need to scatter all over the battle area actual pieces of Bosphuraq ships,
so the Maxolhx find the evidence they expect when they search the area.”

“Oh crap. I suppose we have to take our beat-up
space truck into combat against a Bosphuraq warship, to get this evidence?”

“No, Joe,” he chuckled. “That part is pretty easy,
I think. There is plenty of Bosphuraq warship debris in the Nubrentia star
system, just waiting for us to scoop up.”

“How do you know that?”

“Because those ships were destroyed by an old
friend of ours.”

“Perkins?”

“No, not Emily Perkins. I am talking about Admiral
Tashallo of the Jeraptha’s Mighty 98
th
 Fleet.”

“Tashallo? Isn’t he the same beetle who-” I sat
back in my 
chair.
 “Ok, you need to give me some
background on this.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER NINETEEN

 

First, we had to travel to the Nubrentia star
system, where the Jeraptha Mighty 98
th
 Fleet had their epic battle
against a combined Thuranin-Bosphuraq force. An epic battle in which the
beetles 
kicked ass
. We jumped in two 
lighthours
 away from the gas giant planet that
had been the center of the action. The more Skippy told me about that Admiral
Tashallo guy, the more I wanted to meet him. Of course, I could not meet him
without blowing the secret that monkeys were joy-riding around the galaxy in a
stolen starship, causing havoc. But, if our secret was exposed and Earth needed
to fight, Tashallo would be a good guy, or beetle, to have on our side.

Except the Jeraptha would probably join every
other species in racing to capture Skippy so they could control Elder
wormholes, and any chance of Tashallo and I sitting down to drink a few beers
like best buds was a fantasy.

Anyway, we 
reconnoitered

the area until Skippy was satisfied the 
Dutchman

would not be trapped in a damping field, then we jumped to a zone where Skippy predicted
we would find debris from a Bosphuraq battleship. After the famous victory of
the Mighty 98
th
, the Thuranin and Bosphuraq had abandoned the star
system, and apparently the Jeraptha had not yet reestablished a fuel processing
facility there, because all we found were two Jeraptha frigates. Skippy warned
there might be a whole battlegroup hidden in stealth, but he didn’t think so,
and anyway no one knew who we were, why we were there or what we wanted. Our jump
signature had been modified to look like a Thuranin light cruiser, the sort of
ship the little green MFers would send in for a recon mission.

Collecting broken parts of a Bopshuraq battleship
was easier than I expected. We used three of our new Kristang Dragon-model
dropships, ones we had taken from the 
Ice-Cold
Dagger to the Heart
, flying in formation with a big net strung behind them.
Because I wanted the option to jump away immediately if we got into trouble, Skippy
flew the Dragons by remote-control. The whole operation took less than forty
minutes from launch to 
recovery
 of the
Dragons, and we made a long jump out beyond the far edge of the star system. I
wish all our operations were that smooth and easy.

The debris had to sit in a pressurized docking bay
for a full day before Skippy could work with any of the pieces he selected.
After drifting in deep space, the debris was super cold, it made the humidity
in the docking bay air condense and left puddles on the floor. Most of the
chunks of debris were taken away by Skippy, to process with radiation and
whatever. He had to erase the unique signature of the particular battleship the
debris came from, and leave a signature similar to but different from any Bosphuraq
warship ever built. Having the debris apparently come from a totally unknown
ship, would help sell the idea that the attack on the two Maxolhx ships was
conducted by a top-secret ship of frighteningly advanced capability.

Skippy’s magic also left micro-pitting on the
surfaces of the debris, to match conditions of the InterStellar Medium at the
battle site, and he left tiny hints of quantum warping, to make it look like
the debris had been close to a substantial and violent spacetime distortion.
When he was done, he was absolutely certain the Maxolhx would be convinced the
debris came from a Bosphuraq ship that had attacked the ships we, in fact, blew
up.

Just in case, I had Nagatha perform her own
analysis. She agreed with Skippy. 

 

The next step was to jump back to the battle site,
where we had the tedious task of vaporizing almost two thousand pieces of
spinning debris that the 
Dutchman
 had
left behind. It was like an episode of a police show, where the killer leaves
behind one tiny fragment of hair stuck under a rug and the CSI team finds it.
Except in this case, we were the killers, and we were scrubbing the scene clean
of evidence. Here again, Skippy demonstrated he had a black belt in
awesomeness, because we did not need 
to
laboriously chase down all the pieces of evidence we left behind
.
Because Skippy’s bodacious math skills allowed him to predict exactly where every
single tiny piece of debris was, all we had to do was spin the ship completely
around nose over tail while the maser cannon fired pulses programmed by Skippy.
After clearing three sixty degrees around one axis, we turned the ship slowly
around sideways, until the maser cannon had swept the entire, expanding bubble of
debris. The maser had 
been
 tuned to
produce a beam larger in diameter than normal so it could cover a larger area
with each pulse. After less than two hours, we were done. Skippy remotely flew
dropships out to confirm the evidence had been effectively erased, then the
Bosphuraq debris was ejected at the proper speed and direction.

The whole thing kind of blew my mind. If you are
wondering, like I was, why we didn’t have to go back to clean up the site of
every battle the 
Flying Dutchman
 
was been
 in, don’t worry about it. That’s what
Skippy told me. After we rebuilt the ship at Newark, the quantum signature of
the hull was different from whatever it was when we captured our pirate ship,
so no one could track our debris back to a particular Thuranin star carrier
that had been declared missing in action. The reason we had to clean up
evidence this time 
was
 that we were
planting false evidence, and couldn’t have anything drifting around that could
conflict with our story that the Bosphuraq were the culprits.

Man, when the Maxolhx scanned the false evidence we
planted, they were going to be seriously 
pissed

at the birdbrains.

 

The next step in our ‘Sometimes It’s 
FUN
 
To
 Be An Asshole’
tour of the galaxy, was to jump in near a Wurgalan data relay station, then upload
the file that supposedly came from a Bosphuraq group. At my request, Skippy
added a feature to the file, that looked like a virus hidden in it had tried to
erase the entire file, but only succeeded in corrupting part of the data. I
thought that feature would make it look like someone in the Bosphuraq group had
second thoughts about sending such a devastating confession to the Maxolhx, and
tried to stop the file from being sent. There was also an addendum to the file,
intended to appear as if it were tacked on at the last minute. That addendum stated
the file was given to the Maxolhx, because the senders knew the reckless idiots
who destroyed two Maxolhx warships were inevitably going to get caught, so the
senders hoped that by confessing, the exalted patrons of the Bosphuraq would
punish only the guilty party.

Yeah, like 
that

was ever going to happen.

The file was uploaded successfully, and would
bounce around ships and relay stations until it reached the Maxolhx in about nine
days. We needed that time for the last and the most, really the only, dangerous
part of our operation to frame the Bosphuraq.

Which reminds me, I need to get T-shirts made for
our ‘Sometimes It’s 
FUN
 
To
 Be An Asshole’ tour.

 

 

Skippy needed to get close to the star in the star
system where we had nuked the moonbase, so he could leave behind a subtle
vibration or quantum signature or whatever the hell it was. For all I knew, he
was going to make that star pulse in Morse Code to announce a two-for-one deal
on chalupas at Taco Bell. I had to trust him.

The Bosphuraq already had two dozen ships in that
system to investigate why, and how, their own moonbase had destroyed two
orbiting 
battlestations
 and the
atomic-compression research facility on the planet. And then to investigate why
and how that moonbase, and another unknown site on that moon, had been wiped
out with crude nuclear weapons. According to Skippy, the birdbrains were hopping
mad and scratching their heads, having 
no

idea what happened. Anyway, the reason we were sort of screwed was, after the disaster
at Nubrentia, the Bosphuraq were forced to halt their offensive, and that made plenty
of warships available for other duties. Like helping to figure out just what
the 
hell
 happened at the moonbase we
blew up.

With so many ships there already, the system
became a temporary staging base for battlegroups passing through the area. When
we jumped in near the edge of the system, Skippy reported detecting thirty-seven
warships, with signs that another battlegroup was performing stealthy combat exercises
somewhere near the largest gas giant planet. That was a 
lot
 of ships, any one of them was capable of disabling our poor
battle-scarred 
Flying Dutchman
. No
way could we risk our space truck to carry Skippy close to the star. That deep
in the powerful stellar gravity well, we could not jump away, not even with
Skippy flattening local spacetime for us. Yes, Skippy had performed that particular
magic trick when we were ambushed by a squadron of Thuranin destroyers before
we were forced to take the ship to Newark. But that time, we had not been quite
as close to a star. Skippy said this time, he needed to be so close that, if he
had to flatten spacetime for a jump, the distortion would tear the ship apart.

Besides the 
Dutchman
,
our assets were a handful of Kristang Dragon dropships, two Thuranin Falcons
and our one big Condor.

Oh, and we had one stolen Maxolhx dropship we
called a ‘Panther’. After agonizing about the problem for nearly a full day, I
made the blindingly obvious decision. We jumped the ship away, and accelerated for
nineteen hours to get the ship moving in the correct direction and speed. I got
into the Panther with Skippy and Captain Reed, because she was one of only three
pilots aboard the ship who were at least somewhat qualified to fly that
advanced, senior-species spacecraft. I had been practicing basic operations of
the Panther, but we only had one flight simulator for it, and the real pilots
were occupying the simulator almost twenty-four seven. If something happened to
Reed, I could probably fly the Panther, if I was very slow and careful and
Skippy coached me. But I wasn’t in the Panther as a copilot, I was there in
case a critical decision needed to be made on the spot.

And
, I
was there partly because Skippy told me that, if my stupid plan got screwed up,
and he sank into the core of the star to linger there until the end of time, it
would give him a small measure of comfort to know I was also dead.

I appreciated his honesty.

Anyway, the three of us got into the Panther,
depressurized the docking bay, opened the big outer doors and released the
clamps. Only our landing skids’ grip on the deck held us in place, as the 
Dutchman
 jumped in dangerously close to
the star. Reed retracted our landing skids and puffed thrusters to 
let us drift
 out the door, then she blipped the
throttle so we could get away from the ship before it jumped. Our advanced
stealth field enveloped us as we cleared the docking bay doors, and we were
invisible to any ship that was not right on top of us.

Just before the 
Dutchman
 jumped away, Desai ordered two modified missiles to be
launched toward the star, in a direction away from the course our Panther was
flying. The missiles arced away, making lots of noise. Their booster units
normally would have fired for only a short, hard burn, to reduce the time when
the missiles were glaringly visible. These missiles fired their boosters in
slow-burn sustainer mode, so they could be seen across the star system. As the
missiles approached the star and their booster motors were expended, the active
sensors in their modified nosecones began sending powerful pulses into the
star, pretending they were looking for something. The missiles weren’t sending
back data and we didn’t care, we just wanted them to attract the attention of
the Bosphuraq.

“Is it working?” I asked as I sat in the Panther’s
copilot seat, anxiously watching the display.

“I don’t know yet, dumdum,” Skippy replied in a
tone more peevish than usual. “The closest Bosphuraq ship was eight 
lightminutes
 from where the 
Dutchman
 jumped in, so they would have
just seen the gamma rays a moment ago. How about you, I don’t know, play a
video game or something. Let the adults handle this.”

 

Our Panther coasted along toward the star, inside
a stealth field that was wrapped tightly around the hull, to minimize our
already-tiny signature. The Maxolhx stealth technology, modified by Skippy, was
highly effective. However, there was one problem we could not avoid. As close
to the star as we were, space was flooded with particles of the solar wind. The
Panther was carrying a lot of speed, and we were flying through the solar wind,
causing hydrogen atoms and whatever to collide with us. The Maxolhx stealth
field was integrated with the shield that protected us from micro-meteors,
enemy masers and missiles. As particles impacted the forward part of the
shield, instead of bouncing off they were bent around the hull as if we weren’t
there. At least, most of them were. The shield wasn’t perfect, we left a trail
of particles behind us that had higher energy than the solar wind, like the
wake of a speedboat on the calm surface of a lake. Even the Bosphuraq would
notice the particles trailing behind us, so we had one more trick up our
sleeves. In the rear of the Panther was a tank full of low-energy particles
that we spewed out behind us. There was also some sort of fancy vacuum-energy
quantum bubble gizmo that Skippy tried to explain to me, until my head just
about exploded. Supposedly, it extracted energy from nothing, and left
spacetime behind us slightly colder than normal. The effect of all this
technology was to mask our passage through the hellish solar wind near the
star. Or, we hoped it masked us. We would know if it failed only by a Bosphuraq
warship painting us with an active sensor sweep and pinpointing our position.

I watched the instruments as we flew closer and
closer to the star. Reed was acting calm, but I could tell she was feeling the
tension like I was. The temperature of the hull was enough to melt titanium and
rising. The instruments assured me the Panther was coping with the heat and the
interior of the cabin was comfortable, I still felt sweat trickling down my
back. “Skippy, how do we know this vacuum bubbly thingy is working?”

“Because the instruments say it is operating
perfectly, dumdum.”

“Ok, if you say so. Hey, is this vacuum-energy
gizmo anything like an Elder power tap, it 
pulls

energy from nowhere?”

“No, it is not. Ugh, do I really have to explain
this to you now?”

“It’s not like I’m
doing anything else right now, so-”

“Fine.” Clearly, the exasperated way he said that
word indicated he was not, in fact, fine with the idea of explaining quantum
physics to a particularly dense monkey. “Listen, I am busy, so I’ll make this
quick. The device aboard this Panther does not create energy, nor does it pull
energy from another dimension. The Maxolhx do not yet possess that level of
technology. The device we are using takes energy from the Panther’s reactor and
creates an effect that extracts vacuum energy, but the amount of energy we put
in is much less than we get out. Think of it as an air conditioner, extracting
heat from space and dumping it into a heatsink. We will have to dump that
excess heat before we rendezvous with the 
Dutchman

again. Is that it? Are you satisfied with that answer, or is there any other
information you need to submit your application for a Nobel prize?”

“Um, no, that’s good, thank you.”

“Great. Now, will you kindly 
shut the hell up
, while I am in the extremely delicate operation of
tying knots in the magnetic field lines of a freakin’ star? If you are bored,
you can monitor the pair of Bosphuraq destroyers that just arrived to intercept
our decoy missiles.”

 

I shut the hell up and followed Reed’s example of doing
her job in a cool and quiet manner. Inside, I was shivering as I watched 
first
 two, then four Bosphuraq destroyers
examine and then vaporize our missiles. One destroyer broke away from the
others to head in our general direction, causing me to promise the Universe or
Karma that I would never push my luck again, if they got us out of this one. That
lone destroyer sniffed around the general area with active sensor pulses, and I
kept glancing over at Reed to judge whether we should do something. She continued
calmly focusing on her job, or she was faking it really well. I guess she had
the right attitude; there was nothing we 
could

do if that destroyer locked onto our location with an active sensor sweep. We
could not outrun a destroyer- No, that technically was not entirely correct.
Our little Panther could accelerate harder than a comparatively bulky warship,
but our momentum and the presence of the star meant we had limited options for
an escape route, and the enemy would know that. The mathematics of orbital
mechanics was not a secret and the math 
didn’t change,

we could run but we couldn’t hide for long. The destroyer had three critical
advantages if it detected us and wanted to blow our dropship to dust. According
to Skippy, that class of Bosphuraq destroyer carried a typical load of
sixty-eight missiles of various types, any one of which could vaporize the
Panther. Those ships also were equipped with 
maser

cannons, and particle cannons for close-range fighting. The destroyer also had
the advantage that it was not alone, it could call its three siblings and
surround us. The destroyers could surround us and cut off our escape, even
though we could accelerate harder than any of them, because they could assign
one ship to pursue us, while the other three jumped ahead to wait for us to fly
into their trap. Yes, the destroyers would first need to climb out to jump
distance, giving us at least a slim chance of getting far enough away that they
lost sensor lock on us. But that chance was very slim, slim enough that 
even
 skinny jeans would fall right off it, if
you know what I mean.

The instrument panel in front of me included an
indicator of the signal strength, frequencies and other characteristics of the
destroyer’s active sensor pulses. Based on the wide spectrum of the pulses, and
the broad area being swept, that ship was not looking for anything in
particular. The strength of the signal passing intermittently over us was only
seven percent of the power level necessary to break through our stealth field
and detect us. 

 

Of course, we had discussed all our options if we
were detected while we were flying close to the star, and we knew the risks and

our
 extremely limited ability to survive
if we were detected. Perhaps the major problem with trying to run away from
pursuit was that would mean missing our precisely-planned rendezvous with the 
Flying Dutchman
. For safety, our space
truck had jumped far away, and would be jumping back in at a precise location,
at a time specified to the second, and the ship would be moving at a known
direction and speed. Because jumps are not super-precise unless Skippy is
programming the navigation system, the plan was for the 
Dutchman
 to emerge in front of us along the Panther’s course, and
we would maneuver to match course and speed so the Panther could quickly fly
into a docking bay. Changing our course even slightly to avoid pursuit would
totally screw up our rendezvous. If that happened, we would send a 
tightbeam
 message to the 
Dutchman
 when we detected the ship jumping in, and propose an
alternate rendezvous time and location. Easy enough, right?

No. The answer is no, because Mr. Orbital
Mechanics Math is a stickler for precision. Although it is unfair, math isn’t
flexible, you can’t fudge it or persuade it to bend just because that would be
convenient 
to
 you. An alternate
rendezvous 
point
 and time would not change the fact
that our fleeing Panther would be moving too fast and in the wrong direction,
so we would zip right past the ship before we could decelerate and turn fast
enough to meet it. So, any alternate rendezvous plan would need to include a
delay, so the 
Dutchman
 could
accelerate to match course and speed, with whatever course and speed they guessed
the Panther would be doing at the time and place of the rendezvous. If, during
that time, the Panther had to change course to avoid the pursuing destroyers, we
would helplessly fly right past the 
Dutchman
,
and have to try again. Because the 
Dutchman

would be exposed to enemy fire, the ship could not linger at any rendezvous
point for more than a few minutes.

Did I mention that I freakin’ 
hate
 math? Math is a jerk. Math is even worse than that teacher who
forced you to read Moby Dick over the summer, and made you lose your love of
reading for the next decade.

Yeah, I’m talking about 
you
, Mr. Tomlinson.

Anyway, if we were being hounded by destroyers and
they forced us to miss several rendezvous opportunities, my plan was to toss
Skippy out an airlock, then Reed and I would jump together out soon after. In
our Kristang hardshell suits, we should be able to survive for a while, unless
we left the Panther too close to the star. I had thought ahead, by bringing a
portable stealth field generator that could wrap around 
me and Reed
 while our suits were tethered together. Skippy of
course could conceal his can from detection. If we had to fall back to that
desperate option, I would send the Panther on a preprogrammed course to lead
the destroyers away from us, and ping the 
Dutchman

with a guess on where they could retrieve first Skippy, then me and Reed. The
ship would have to send out 
a dropship
 to
pick us up, and we would be starting the rendezvous game all over again, this
time using a Thuranin spacecraft that had significantly less capability than
the Panther.

I did not like our odds of survival if that
happened.

Plus, that 
last-ditch
desperate
 plan to save our asses would mean abandoning the fancy Maxolhx
dropship we worked so hard to get. I was not sentimental about the thing, but it
was a priceless asset that we might need later. Plus, Skippy had warned me
that, even if I got the Panther to self-destruct, the Bosphuraq might, and
certainly the Maxolhx would, identify the debris as Maxolhx in origin. That
would cause the Maxolhx to ask all kinds of questions, which could weaken or
ruin our attempt to frame the Bosphuraq for our own nefarious deeds.

This clandestine shit is way, 
way
 too complicated.

 

 
“Um, Sir,”
Reed spoke for the first time in several minutes. “We may have a problem.”

A quick scan of the instruments,

showed me no warning indicators about systems aboard our used, stolen
spacecraft. The curious destroyer was not any closer to detecting us. Although
 as the commander, I would
 have liked to pretend
I also was aware of any potential danger, I had to look over at her and admit
complete ignorance. “What is it, Reed?”

“Solar flare,” she pointed to the display between
the seats. “It’s building up ahead of us.”

“Shit.” It was a good thing I had brought a change
of underwear because I might need it before the mission was over. “Skippy,” I
asked with a shaky voice. “Is that thing going to hit us?” The flare was a
problem, a big, 
big
 problem. The
Panther could not survive flying through it, so we would need to engage the
engines to change course, that would compromise our stealth. If we had to
change course radically, that could risk missing the planned rendezvous with
the ship. If the situation got really bad, we might need to climb high enough
away from the star that Skippy could not do, whatever the hell he was doing,
and we would need to try the whole operation all over again. 
Except
 that this time, the Bosphuraq ships
would be waiting there, looking for trouble.

Crap. Sometimes I really hate my job.

“Um, 
no
,”
Skippy responded in his most condescending tone. “Nope, not going to be a
problem for us, Joe. I have analyzed the magnetic field in the area of that
solar flare, and it will not come near our altitude until we are safely past
that location.”

“Oh,” I gave Reed a thumbs up, noting that my
thumb was shaking. I made a fist to cover the visible sign of my fear. “That’s
great, thank you. How much longer for you 
to
-”

“Ah, um, except, 
dang
 it!” Skippy snapped. “I forgot that I am currently screwing
with the quantum foundation of the star, which affects the magnetic field in
the photosphere. 
Ugh
! All my
calculations are screwed up. I need to run the math again to- 
Dang
 it!”

This time Reed looked at me, and her eyes were
wide open with alarm. “Skippy,” she asked. “What’s wrong?”

“The way I am screwing with the star makes the
interactions of the magnetic field highly unpredictable, even for me. The star 
will
 settle down into a predictable
pattern, in about three or four days. Too late for us. Basically, right now I have

no idea
 what that solar flare will
do. Could be a problem.”

“
Could

be?” I glared at him. “You absent-minded little shithead, didn’t you know that
screwing with the star might cause solar flares to-”

“Hey, if 
you

want to crunch this math,” he snapped at me, “go ahead, 
monkeyboy
. You’d better kick off your shoes, because you will need
to count to more than ten.”

Reed held up a hand to forestall my scathing and
unhelpful reply. “Skippy, you are screwing with the star. Can you screw with it
in a way that will reduce the power of that flare?”

“No, of course not, you- Well, um, shit. Shmaybe?
Crap. Now I have to drop the math I was doing, and run an entirely new set of-”
His voice trailed off, muttering. “Yes,” he said, in the 
quite
,
sulky tone of voice a young boy uses, when admitting to Mommy that he ate all
the cookies she baked.

Reed and I shared a glance. I nodded for her to
speak. “What was that, Skippy? I didn’t hear you.”

“You heard me perfectly well and you know it,” he
sniffed. “The answer is yes, I can, and already am, dampening the energy
flowing into that flare. It is subsiding. As a bonus, my having to do that creates
a disruption that will be convincing evidence to the Maxolhx, of the Bosphuraq
having conducted clumsy experiments with warping spacetime here. It’s a win-win
situation for everyone!”

“Except for 
you
,”
I retorted. “Who should have considered this before we started this whole
operation.”

“Hey, I-”

“Boys!” Reed shouted and slapped the armrest of
her seat. “Can you two please continue this schoolyard squabble 
after
 we return to the ship?”

“Sure,” I replied, chastened at being childish.

“Fine,” Skippy agreed, then under his breath added
“jerk.”

“Asshole,” I muttered back, but we stayed quiet
after that.

 

We soared over the still-building solar flare, and
glided safely past before Skippy allowed the pent-up energy to release, causing
the flare to erupt in violent, liquid flames. With one eye, I stared mesmerized
at the immense, destructive beauty of the flare, while with 
my other eye
, I monitored the destroyer that
was still nosing around above us. The wild energy of the flare was a two-sided
coin for us. It made our stealth field work extra hard to keep us concealed,
but it also partly blinded the sensors of that curious destroyer. The enemy
ship increased the power of its active sensor pulses to compensate, giving me
yet another reason to sweat inside my suit.

Either the Universe took pity on me, or had a
worse fate in mind, because that lone destroyer soon returned to the other
three, and they sent out probes to collect debris from our missiles. As Skippy
planned, that debris would positively identify those missiles as Thuranin, which
would not surprise the Bosphuraq at all. Of course the Thuranin 
were
 curious about what kind of advanced
research their hated rivals had been conducting, before they apparently blew up
their own laboratory.

 

Anyway, Skippy did his thing, the Panther continued
coasting way too close to the star, until our momentum flung 
us
 past and we climbed away for a rendezvous
with the 
Flying Dutchman
. Our zipping
past the star caused us to pick up velocity, by an amount Skippy had not been
able to predict exactly because of gravity fluctuations he was causing inside
the star. When the 
Dutchman
 jumped in
to pick us up thirty-two hours later, we had 
canceled

our excess velocity and were within two meters of where Skippy expected us to
be.

Within minutes, the Panther was secured in its
docking clamps and the ship jumped away before any Bosphuraq warships could
arrive to spoil the party. Desai greeted us when the bay was 
pressurized

and I stepped out of the Panther. “Hello, XO, how was-” I sniffed the air,
alarmed. “What is that smell? Is something burning?”

Desai waved her hands to squelch my fears. “Nothing
important, it’s under control. We blew out a few relays after we jumped in, I
think even this distance is too close to the star. Nagatha had to adjust the shields
to avoid the ship getting cooked like we were in a Tandoor oven. This ship
can’t take much more abuse, Sir.”

“Yeah,” I agreed. We really did need a new ship, a
real warship. “I will add that to the list. Our mission here is accomplished.”

“What’s next?” She asked as she examined the
Panther’s hull, suspicious I might have damaged the priceless spacecraft.

“Next?” I shrugged. “We wait for the Maxolhx to
receive our message. If it works, all we will need to do is make popcorn so we
can watch the fireworks.”

Desai was not a pessimistic person. She was also
second in command of the ship, and needed to know what the plan was. “What if
it 
doesn’t
 work?”

Maybe a better commander would have offered
encouraging words. I didn’t like selling bullshit to my own crew. “Then it
doesn’t much matter what we do, because humanity is 
totally
 screwed.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY

 

After we vaporized all evidence of that the 
Flying Dutchman
 
had ever
 been at the scene of our battle against the two Maxolhx
cruisers, planted broken bits of 
a Bosphuraq
warship
 at the same location, and made a star vibrate in a way that is
distinctive of someone crudely warping spacetime, we chilled. By ‘chilled’ I
mean, I exercised like a madman, so I would be tired enough to sleep when I
collapsed into bed each night. Much of my awake time was devoted to endless,
useless worrying about things I could not control until my stomach was churning
so badly, I could barely work up an appetite for food.

Good times.

Smythe had Star Team Alpha running constant training
drills, including simulated combat on the surface of an airless planet that was
orbiting a nameless red dwarf star, where we took the ship for minor
maintenance while we waited.

Our chief pilot Sami Reed occupied our idle time
by drilling her team in flying the 
Dutchman

and all five types of dropships: Panther, Condor, Falcon and the A and B types
of Kristang Dragons. Because we had few spares for the priceless Panther or
Condor, flight training for that was conducted in the simulators. The pilots
also practiced for real with STAR Team-Alpha.

When the crew was not training to exhaustion each
day, Desai had plenty of activities for their ‘downtime’. Most of the crew,
like me, were falling asleep halfway through Movie Night, and even our big Taco
Tuesday blowout celebration, including margaritas (limited to one per person) did
not elicit the excitement she hoped for.

The truth was, the only thing the crew cared about
was hearing whether the Maxolhx had received the bogus confession file we
planted and if so, whether they bought it. On the tenth day after Skippy
uploaded the frame-up file, we took the ship away from the dull red dwarf star and
jumped to a Wurgalan data relay station. We chose to hit up a Wurgalan station
for info, because Skippy said their information security was so 
pathetic
 he could hack into its AI remotely without risking
the ship. As clients of the Bosphuraq, we also figured the Wurgalan’s message
traffic would be absolutely 
full
 of useful
info, if the Maxolhx were taking action to punish the birdbrains.

 

Day Ten passed with no news, and no news was not
good news. We had chosen that particular relay station because a lot of ships
flew by, so it would not take long for news of the Bosphuraq getting the
beat-down to reach us. The 
Flying
Dutchman
 was parked in stealth twenty 
lightminutes

away from the station, waiting for the AI there to transmit relevant data to us
via 
tightbeam
 transmission.

As always with anything involving the vast
distances of interstellar travel, we had to wait way too long. Let’s say the
Maxolhx decided to start with hitting the Bosphuraq in their home star system.
A ship leaving that system immediately, and traveling directly along the
shortest route to our relay station, would still take five days to swing past
our captive station and exchange messages. So, the eighteen minutes it took for
a signal to travel from the relay station to the 
Flying Dutchman,
 was only a minor annoyance.

If the Maxolhx first hit an isolated Bosphuraq
world, we might not know about it for nineteen days at the earliest. And all of

that
 assumed the Maxolhx reacted
instantly after receiving our file, which was never going to happen. The
surprised kitties probably first needed to howl their equivalent of ‘WTF?’ and
then analyze the file to make sure, as best they could, that it was authentic. Next
would be the inevitable debates, arguments and hand-wringing. Only then would
ships be assigned to scout the supposed site of the battle, and the star system
where the dangerous and banned experiments were conducted. After confirmation
was received that two powerful Maxolhx cruisers had in fact, been destroyed by
a spacetime-warping weapon the Maxolhx could only dream about, would the rotten
kitties consider what action they should take.

They also had to consider what actions they 
could
 take, because their disobedient
and traitorous clients apparently had access to frighteningly advanced
technology. The Bosphuraq had weapons that the Maxolhx had no practical defense
against and, therefore, the Maxolhx were in the astonishing position of having
to fear the lowly 
Bosphuraq
 would hit
back if the Maxolhx retaliated for the destruction of their ships. Desai,
because it was her job to keep me out of trouble, warned me not to let my hopes
get up too high.

“Colonel,” she looked at me over her steaming cup
of tea while we were chatting in my office. “Because their clients apparently
have powerful weapons, the Maxolhx might decide to be cautious, and quietly
approach the Bosphuraq government through diplomatic channels. Such
communications would be highly classified, so it likely would not be delivered
through data relays.”

I was tossing a ball off the wall, onto my desk
and catching it, until the annoyed look on her face made me put the thing back
in a drawer. “Ok, Desai, let’s wargame this scenario.”

“Sir?”

“I don’t mean an actual war 
game
,” I explained. She spoke perfect English, but my meaning might
not have been clear to someone not used to American slang. “Let’s do what
Einstein called a ‘thought experiment’. We imagine what things would logically
happen.”

“Ooh! Ooh!” Skippy’s avatar flashed into
existence. “Can I play?”

“Yes, if you promise to play nicely. Desai?”

She sat back in her chair, sipping tea. “I prefer
to observe this one, Sir.”

“Ok,” I shrugged, wishing I had the ball to throw
around, because it helps me think better. “Let’s say the kitties go to the
birdbrains with the info we planted, and the evidence that verifies the
frame-up. 
First
 thing the birdbrains will
do is, what?”

“First,” Skippy chuckled. “They say 
WTF, 
dude?”

“Right,” I laughed. “Then, I guess they initially
argue with the Maxolhx that the evidence must be fake, like it’s a trick by the

Thuranin
.”

“Possibly,” Skippy agreed. “The Maxolhx then get
pissed, because they know there is no way the idiot Thuranin could have destroyed
those cruisers, plus the battle site has ripples that were distinctively caused
by a spacetime distortion. 
Plus
,” he
waved a finger for emphasis, “how do the Bosphuraq explain the distinctive distortions
inside the star, in the same system where the Bosphuraq admit they had a
sensitive research facility?”

“Egg-
zactly
,” I mimicked one of Skippy’s
favorite sayings. “A research facility that suspiciously and conveniently 
just happens
 to have apparently blown
itself up, erasing all evidence of exactly what the Bosphuraq 
were
 really doing there.”

“Yup, explaining all those coincidences would be a
head-scratcher for sure. At that point, what would the Bosphuraq government be
thinking?”

“My guess,” I winked at Skippy, “is they are saying
to themselves ‘Well shit, that 
does

explain why our moonbase attacked our own research facility on the planet’.”

“That’s a fact, Jack!” Skippy jumped and with his
little hand, gave me a high five. “So then, the birdbrains are considering
their options. The Maxolhx want them to investigate and punish their own
research group, which is way better than the kitties getting even more pissed off
and randomly bombarding Bosphuraq planets.”

“
Except
,”
I held up a finger to interject. “There must be a few smart people in their
government, who will be thinking that if the research group truly 
does
 have these supremely powerful
weapons, they are the last people the government should try to punish. In fact,
if the smart people are really smart, they are thinking ‘Hey, we have
super-powerful weapons, so we should tell the Maxolhx to go fuck themselves’.”

“My thoughts exactly, Joe,” Skippy agreed with a
happy chuckle. “The Maxolhx aren’t stupid, so they would go through the same
logical line of thinking we just did. Which means,” he held out a hand for me
to finish his thought.

“It means no way would the Maxolhx give the
Bosphuraq time to cover 
up
 further evidence
of their wrong-doing, and time to plot a rebellion against their patrons. The
Maxolhx will hit this research group by surprise, and hit them hard so they
don’t have a chance to hit back.”

“Mister Skippy,” Desai finally spoke. “This scenario
you just described agrees with your analysis of the Maxolhx’s character as a
species?”

“It does, and there is another factor that Joe did
not consider. The Maxolhx cannot afford a major rebellion by a client species.
Even they don’t have the resources to suppress a wide-spread bid by a second-tier
client to break away. It is not widely known by clients of either species, but
the balance of power between the Maxolhx and Rindhalu is very close. If the
Maxolhx had to divert a significant portion of their military assets to bring a
rebellious client back into line, they would be vulnerable to a direct attack
by the Rindhalu. Even the lazy spiders would not miss such a golden opportunity
to lay a serious beat-down on their enemy. So, what this means is the Maxolhx
cannot afford to be seen as weak or lenient or indecisive. They maintain dominance
over their coalition through terror. Any attack by a client 
must
 be met with a devastating response
that no one will ever forget.”

“Shit,” I said softly. “Oh, hell. I just realized
that whatever the Maxolhx do is on 
me
,
Skippy. This is ultimately my fault. All those deaths will be on me, the blood
will be on my hands.”

“I wouldn’t worry about it, Joe,” Skippy assured
me just as softly as I had spoken. “In case you think I am saying that because
I am an asshole, let me assure you that is not 
entirely
 true. There will be blood, no question about that.
However, just as the Maxolhx cannot afford to be distracted by a major client
rebellion, they also can’t afford to weaken the Bosphuraq too badly. 
Weakness
 of a second-tier client ultimately
weakens the entire coalition. The Maxolhx will hit the research group they
think is responsible, and will conduct other punishment actions that will be
selected mostly for their shock and publicity value. But ultimately, even the
Maxolhx can only go so far in hitting the Bosphuraq, without damaging
themselves. Plus, the Maxolhx will not just want to retaliate. They will make a
big show of hitting research facilities, but I expect their main goal will be
to capture the scientists who supposedly developed the spacetime weapon. The
Maxolhx, above all, want that technology for themselves.”

Desai shuddered. “I would not wish to be one of
the scientists they capture.”

That thought made me shake. “Me too.”

 

 

So, we fully expected the response of the Maxolhx
to be powerful and quickly known all across the galaxy. I expected their
response 
also to be
 swift, because they
would fear every 
day
 they delayed gave the research
group time to discover they had been betrayed, and to prepare to defend
themselves against a retaliatory attack.

“I disagree, Joe,” Skippy announced smugly.

“Are you disagreeing purely on principle, because
I am a dumdum even for a monkey?”

“While that is true, in this case I 
am disagreeing
 because my well-informed and
incisive analysis of the Maxolhx, gives me an advantage over your profoundly
ignorant ‘
Duh
 
me
 think this will happen’.”

“So, you 
are

disagreeing
 because I’m a dumdum, like I said.”

“No. I 
am
disagreeing
 with the 
conclusion

you reached.”

“The conclusion I reached, becaaaause?”

He sighed. “Because you are an ignorant dumdum.
Ok, you got me. Listen, numbskull, the Maxolhx rightfully fear that some
scientists of the research group will manage to escape, possibly with weapons,
if they have any warning of the attack. So, I expect the Maxolhx to assemble
their forces and hit all the research group bases, plus any place they suspect
is an undeclared research facility, in coordinated attacks at the same moment.
Assembling that many ships, and preparing assault troops with accurate
schematics of their targets, will take time. The Maxolhx will be more concerned
about 
a correct
 response rather than a
quick response. My advice is to chill and wait for things to happen.”

“That’s eas- easy for you to say,” I stammered
through a sleep-deprived yawn. “The waiting is killing me.”

“Me too, Joe. Me too.”

 

Days Eleven through Fifteen passed with no information
relevant to us. The station was regularly sending us burst transmissions with
updates, both so we could be informed of any new freakin’ disasters the Grumpy
Band of Pirates had to deal with, and so we could be sure that Skippy’s hacking
into the AI had not busted the stupid thing. After I nagged him about it for a
full day, Skippy consented to 
running
 a
diagnostic on the relay station’s AI, to confirm it was operating properly. He
then informed me that, tragically, the hot water pipe to my personal shower was
broken and it would take several days to fix it. I thought that was odd,
because the water supply pipe itself heated the water. The following morning, I
froze myself trying to shower in water that apparently had just melted off a
glacier. The shower in the gym, which had been nice and hot for the guy using
it before me, also mysteriously malfunctioned and sprayed out frigid water when
it was my turn.

The worst part is, when I got enough control of my
shivering hands to open the shower door for a towel, there was Anastacia the
sexbot waiting for me, with an armful of towels. She was wearing a shapeless
gray coverall that somehow hugged her curvaceous form perfectly. “Do you need a
towel, Joseph? You look 
cold
. Ooooh,”
she giggled and squinted. “Is that what you men call ‘
shrinkage
’?”

I got the message and resolved never to nag Skippy
again.

In the future, I would ask Nagatha to do it for me.

 

 

Days Sixteen through Twenty-Two dragged by with
agonizing slowness. Smythe called a downtime cycle for his exhausted STAR team,
and Reed eased up on pilot training. People had their skills honed to a razor
edge, at that point what they needed was rest. The evening of Day Twenty-Two
was an impromptu Karaoke night in the galley, which the crew needed to blow off
steam. Even the certain knowledge that Skippy would insist on singing did not
dampen people’s spirits.

They didn’t know what I did. If they did, the crew
would have locked themselves in their cabins and claimed a severe illness.

“Hey, Joe, this misfit barrel of monkeys are in
for a real treat tonight,” he boasted.

An involuntary shudder shook my shoulders and I
tried to pretend I was stretching, by pumping my arms over my head. “Well, I
know I for sure can hardly wait. Um, please, can you give me a hint?” Maybe I
could take pity on the crew by calling a surprise combat drill right before the
karaoke started.

“Well, if you must know,” he said with false
modesty. “It is a medley of selections from my epic opera ‘Homefront’.”

“Oh, no, don’t do that, Skippy.”

“Why not?” He pouted.

“Listen, you are justifiably proud of what is
surely a ground-breaking work of art, right? Do you really think the galley of
a stolen pirate ship is the proper forum for a debut of such an epic? You know
our crew. Do you really think this barrel of screeching monkeys 
are
 capable of appreciating the vast scope of
your artistic vision?”

“Hmm,” he bowed his head thoughtfully. “Perhaps
you are right about that, Joe.”

“Trust me, I know I am,” I crossed my fingers
behind my back for good luck. “Don’t you have something else you can serenade
us with?”

“Not really, nothing new. I have been mostly
focused on the arias for ‘Homefront’.”

“Are you sure? No 
fifteenth-century

Hungarian folk songs? No Tibetan throat singing?”

“Nope.”

“Come on, Skippy. I have heard you muttering bits
of songs when you think no one is listening. You made me listen to Homefront, I
mean, you allowed me the honor of hearing parts of it, so I know you were
singing something different.”

“I do not ‘
mutter
’,
Joe,” he sniffed.

“What I meant is, it sounds like you are lost in
the artistic process,” I used the best line of bullshit I could think of right
then.

“Oh. I guess that is possible.”

“So, what have you been singing that is 
not

your Homefront opera?”

“Well, heh heh, there is one other thing I have
been playing around with.”

His ‘heh heh’ made my blood freeze, but I asked
the question anyway. “Please, don’t make me guess. What is it?”

“If you 
must

know-”

“I am dying to know,” I assured him.

“The experience of
writing Homefront was so rewarding, I looked for other subjects for an epic
opera.
 Naturally, I was inspired by the Estonian agronomist Ingmar Saarsoo’s
groundbreaking and influential 1923 research paper ‘The Effects of Introducing
Organophosphate Fertilizers on Agricultural Production in the Lower 
Silesia
 Basin’.”

“Oh,” I choked on a laugh, trying to shove the
traitorous thing back down my throat before Skippy noticed. “Of course. That is
pure genius, Skippy.”

“Why, thank you. You’re right, it 
is
 kind of an obvious inspiration for an
epic opera,” he continued with utterly pure cluelessness. “But I will apply my
unique vision to make it special.”

“Uh huh, uh huh,” I stared at the deck and
clenched my fists to prevent my inner mirth from bubbling to the surface. “Do
you plan to base the opera on the research paper itself, or on the movie
version?”

“
There was a
MOVIE about it
?” He bellowed with anguish.

“Well, sure, I thought you knew,” I lied. “It had
Clark Gable,” I named the first Golden Age actor I could think of who 
was not John Wayne
. “And that actress, um,” my brain locked
up. Judy Garland? No, not her. “I can’t remember her name right now.”

“Ohhhhh, crap,” he was almost in tears.

I almost felt sorry for the little guy. Then I
thought of how the crew would suffer if he sang about fertilizer. My crew. “Damn,
Skippy, I am terribly sorry for you.”

“They made a 
movie

about it. Damn it! Now I’ll have to scrap the whole thing and start over.
Buncha jerks.”

“I’m sure you can think of something else to sing
about.”

“Joe,” he choked up. “Tonight, I do not feel like
singing.”

“Uh.” I knew we would all pay later if he did not
get his moment of glory that evening. “Hey, how about you perform a duet with
Frey?” To me, it would be a bonus for them to sing together, because her voice
was equally as awful as Skippy’s. We could kill two birds with one stone, and
get it over with quickly. “Please?”

He sighed. “If you insist. But I must warn you, it
will be an uninspired performance.”

I had to sit on my traitorous fists to stop them
from pumping the air in triumph. “We will appreciate you making the sacrifice
for us, Skippy.”

 

Skippy’s moment on stage was mercifully brief, and
his singing was truly uninspired.

I was totally Ok with that.

Yes, I did feel bad about ruining his day, but it
was only temporary. Eventually, he would dig into the vast collection of files
he extracted from databases on Earth, and realize there was no movie about
Estonian fertilizer or whatever. I would catch hell from him for lying, but by
that point hopefully he would have moved on to another project. Anything had to
be better than an opera about fertilizer.

I was wrong about that, as you will learn later.

 

Anyway, the festivities on Day Twenty-Two served
to end our drought. That was a good thing, because I was getting desperate
enough to sacrifice a jar of Fluff to the gods. “Joe! Joe Joe Joe Joe-”

Of course, the message arrived in the middle of
the night. I awoke to find Skippy’s hologram sitting on my chest, waving its
arms to get my attention. I guess I’m lucky his holographic hands could not
slap me.

Oh, damn it, do 
NOT
 mention that to Skippy, or he will upgrade his hologram to add
that feature.

“Uh,” I had to swallow a 
couple
 times to get my mouth working. “What is it?”

“I have good news, Joe!”

Not wanting to get my hopes up, I did not ask if
it was about the Maxolhx. “Did you find a new subject for an opera?”

“Huh?” He was taken aback. “How did you know that?
Yes, I have been inspired by the 1932 Manhattan phone directory. No way did anyone
make a movie about 
that
. Ha, suck it,
Hollywood!”

“The 
phone
book
?” I groaned. “Is the first verse of the opera something like ‘AAAAA
Auto Repair’?”

He sucked in a breath. “
How
 did you know that?!” He screeched at me.

“Lucky guess. Can I go back to sleep now?”

“What? And miss all the fun? The news just came in
from the relay station. It would have come in sooner, but the ship that
delivered the update lingered near the station for five freakin’ hours while
performing minor maintenance, so the station could not send the data to us
until it left. It worked, Joe! The Maxolhx have given the Bosphuraq a major
beat-down all across the sector. Everyone is talking about it!”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY ONE

 

Five minutes later, I was on the bridge, where the
duty officer gave the command chair to me. Someone brought me a cup of coffee,
and soon the entire ship was awake. I didn’t give orders to wake up the
off-duty personnel, and Skippy didn’t interrupt their sleep. It happened
organically, with people pinging their friends so they didn’t miss the
excitement. I called Adams because I knew she would be pissed if I didn’t
. Also
 because I wanted to share the moment
with her.

Because there was not enough room in the
Bridge/CIC complex for the crew to squeeze in comfortably, I went to the galley
to review the updates. Most of the crew joined me there, except for the handful
still on duty. I could have stayed on the bridge and suggested people gather in
the galley, but they naturally wanted to be with their captain. It’s like at a
party where the host sets out food around the house, but everyone crowds into
the kitchen anyway. It’s an instinct for us humans.

Skippy used the big display screen we used for
movies to show his analysis of the file we received. The data was transmitted
by a Bosphuraq ship, so some of the stuff we saw were first-hand accounts of
the devastation, including video. Man, it looked bad. The worst part was a moon
where the Bosphuraq had a research facility they thought was secret. Skippy
told us the base, buried deep below the moon’s surface, was dedicated to
reverse-engineering advanced alien technology, including Maxolhx tech they had
found, stolen or purchased. Nothing the Bosphuraq were doing there was any sort
of threat to the Maxolhx, but that did not deter the rotten kitties from making
an example of that facility. The moon was small, only about a thousand miles in
diameter, barely big enough for gravity to have pulled it into a spherical
shape, and it orbited a sparsely-populated planet that was mostly covered with
glaciers. The planet reminded me of Newark, except Skippy assured me this place
was a frozen iceball due entirely to natural conditions, and it never was home
to a native intelligent species.

Anyway, the video we watched was from a Bosphuraq
satellite. Two Maxolhx ships jumped in near the moon, with shields up and
weapons hot, announcing the Bosphuraq were about to be punished for their
crimes. The ships then jumped away abruptly, having stayed there just long
enough to recalibrate their drive coils for an accurate jump. A second later,
the moon was cracked in half, then the pieces shattered. In minutes, all that
was left of the moon was a cloud of debris. Skippy later told me that a
significant portion of the moon would rain down on the planet below, throwing
enough dust into the atmosphere to block out the local sun, and dooming that
world to at least several thousand years of being locked in a solid covering of
ice.

It is a good thing I had ignored my broker’s
advice to invest in a vacation condo there.

The really shocking thing about the incident was
how the Maxolhx cracked an entire moon. At first, it was 
not
 clear what had happened, partly because the
two ships jumping away had been the focus of the satellite’s attention. The
Bosphuraq were fearfully speculating that their patrons had deployed technology
the birdbrains could barely imagine. I was afraid the rotten kitties had
somehow used Elder weapons, like the devices that scooped out perfect
half-spheres from moons scattered around the Orion Arm. Skippy rejected that
idea, pointing out that what we saw was no mere crater, and that no material
was displaced, the moon was simply blown up.

He was able to analyze the video, and he realized
what had happened; the Maxolhx simply hit that moon with a bullet. A big
bullet, traveling really, 
really

fast. Like, it was traveling at an estimated seventy-three percent of
lightspeed. Almost half a 
billion

miles per hour.

“Holy 
shhhhh
,”
my voice trailed off in a whisper. “The Maxolhx have a railgun 
that
 powerful?” The railgun that the 
Flying Dutchman’s 
used to have
 could not achieve
anywhere near that power, and the darts propelled by that railgun’s
electromagnets were tiny compared to the big bullet that impacted that moon.

“No, Joe,” he shook his head. “I am pretty sure
they did not use a railgun, at least, not a railgun aboard a starship. In fact,
this incident confirms something I have heard rumors about, that the Maxolhx
have relativistic darts free-flying around the Milky Way galaxy, in areas where
there is little dust to erode their momentum. The Maxolhx likely built special
robotic ships that took years to accelerate these objects. Anomalous
high-energy radiation has been detected in isolated areas of the galaxy, which
is suspected 
of coming
 from these objects
striking stray hydrogen atoms. The rumor states that each object is equipped
with a jump drive. On command, an impactor can make several jumps to emerge close
to its designated target, giving that target no time to react.”

I frowned and looked at the video again. Just like
Skippy said, when the image was enhanced and run in super-duper slow motion,
you could see something emerged from a jump wormhole and there was also a
streak from the wormhole to the moon’s surface. Just after that, the moon
cracked in half, along the line of that streaking object. “That sounds like a 
lot
 of effort, just to destroy a
research base.”

“It is an impractical level of effort to sustain,
true,” he agreed. “I suspect that weapon was not originally targeted at the
Bosphuraq. It was 
most
 likely intended to
strike Rindhalu facilities, but over the years it flew beyond jump range of any
Rindhalu potential targets, and drifted close to that Bosphuraq star system.
The Maxolhx used that weapon for two purposes. First, to make a spectacular show
of how serious they are about punishing rebellious clients. Second, and I think
more importantly, use of that weapon was directed at the Rindhalu. The Maxolhx
were sending a message, that the spiders should not view an attempted rebellion
by the Bosphuraq, as an opportunity to strike the Maxolhx while their coalition
is weak. We can hit you 
hard
, is the
message the Maxolhx are sending to the Rindhalu.” He chuckled.

“Skippy,” I was surprised. No, I was dismayed by
his making light of the situation. Part of my anger was my own guilt at having
started the whole mess. A habitable planet was about to be plunged into 
a severe
 ice age, possibly wiping out an entire
biosphere, and forcing evacuation of the population currently living on the
surface. “This,” I pointed at the image of the exploding moon, “is not funny.”

“Oh,” he did a good gesture of raised eyebrows. “I
was not laughing at that. The subject of my mirth is the Maxolhx thinking their
relativistic impactors can be a threat to the Rindhalu. Unknown to the rotten
kitties is that the spiders have surrounded their important planets and other
facilities with a field that is sort of a super version of the technology I
installed to slow down and catch bullets in our rifle range. Any impactor would
be 
destroyed
 and its kinetic energy dissipated before
it could hit the surface of a Rindhalu world.”

“Oh. Sorry I snapped at you. Hey, isn’t using a
relativistic impactor a violation of the Number Five Rule of Engagement in this
war?”

“Wow, I am impressed by your memory, Joe. You
learned The Rules way back on Camp Alpha, before you shipped out to Paradise.”

“Something like that kind of sticks in your mind,
Skippy.”

“I can see that. Anyway, you mean the rule that
prohibits dropping asteroids or comets on a habitable world? Technically yes,
what the Maxolhx did to that moon does violate the spirit of The Rules.
However, you forgot something very important.”

“Um, because that moon didn’t have a biosphere?”

“No,” he chuckled again. “Because those rules were
written by the Maxolhx and Rindhalu, to protect them and their interests. The
rules don’t apply to 
them
.”

“Oh,” I ground my teeth together. “Of course.”

 

We watched a couple more images of Maxolhx ships
using conventional weapons against other Bosphuraq facilities, including
pounding one target in the center of a city on a 
heavily-populated
 planet. Although the Bosphuraq were our enemies
and they would happily exterminate humanity if they got the chance, seeing the
destruction of that city made me feel sick. Collateral damage spread for
kilometers from the impact zone. The only good news was the attack just
happened to be at night, when the commercial and industrial heart of the city
was mostly unoccupied. Collateral damage did extend into residential areas
outside the city center. When the video showed a scene of a young Bosphuraq
screaming in the wreckage of a collapsed apartment building, the cheering in
the galley fell silent. I had to leave the galley at that point.

Adams came out into the corridor, carrying a fresh
cup of coffee for me. I didn’t need any more coffee, and she knew that, and she
knew I understood that her offering me coffee was just a supportive gesture.

It meant a lot to me.

“Thanks,” I said as I blew on the too-hot coffee,
trying to cool it so I could drink.

“You 
are thinking
that
 those deaths are on you,” she said bluntly.

“It’s not-”

“You’re right, they are,” she looked me right in
the eye. “Both because you initiated the Maxolhx attack, and because your
actions beginning years ago lead us to the point where we needed to frame the
Bosphuraq.”

“Adams,” I replied sourly, the coffee tasting
extra bitter in my mouth. “I recently told Skippy that he has no future as a
motivational speaker. You-”

“You think 
I’m not
being
 supportive? Bullshit. If you want someone to pat you on the back and
tell you nice lies to make you feel good, that’s a job for your parents. A real

friend
,” she emphasized the word,
“tells you the truth. 
And then helps you deal
with it.
 I know from watching you over the years that being in command 
sucks
. It sucks especially for you
because you’re a genuinely good person, and your conscience bothers you when
you hurt innocent people. Even if those people are birds or hamsters, even
lizards.”

“I never wanted this job.”

“No, but you’re stuck with it now. The Maxolhx are
going to kill thousands of Bosphuraq before this is over. That action will save

billions
 of lives on Earth. There are
innocent people on our home planet, too.”

She let me talk for a while, just stood there
quietly while I talked about how I felt inadequate for the job. About how I
took actions I thought were correct, even inspired and brilliant at the time.
Only to later realize I might have just created a bigger problem in the long
run.

“Hey,” she actually patted me on the back. “It 
is
 going to be Ok. You know that,
right?”

I reached up and patted her hand while it was
still resting on my shoulder. 
“Is this you
telling me bullshit to make me feel better?”

“No.” She squeezed my shoulder and didn’t pull her
hand away. “I feel it,” she tapped her chest over her heart, “in here. We’re
going to be all right.”

“Well,” I lifted my hand from hers and she pulled
away. “I 
do
 feel better.”

She tilted her head and smiled at me. “That’s the
coffee you’re feeling. It is,” she glanced at the clock on the nearby wall
panel. “Zero three 
forty five
, and we’ve
been up for two hours.”

People were coming out of the galley, so we
stepped aside not to block the corridor. I lifted the coffee cup. “I’m not
going back to sleep at this point.”

“None of us are,” she agreed and smiled again, her
eyes darting down toward the deck in a coy gesture.

Damn it, for a split-second I almost thought she
was about to suggest we, you know, sneak away somewhere private, and do
something.

Then, because the Universe hates me, she looked up
and took a breath. “My duty shift begins at 
oh-seven
hundred
, so I’m going to hit the gym first.”

And, just like that, the moment was gone. I jerked
my head back up the corridor toward my office. “I’d better finish reviewing
that data dump. It sure looks good, but-”

“I know. The Universe hates the Merry Band of
Pirates.”

“I think it just hates 
me
.”

She shrugged. “We’re all in the same boat.”

“True dat,” I held out a fist and she bumped it.

I was sitting down in my office chair when it hit
me: the whole time we had been talking, she had not once called me ‘Sir’ or
‘Colonel’. That was unusual. Adams did not overuse those titles as too many
young soldiers do, making a ‘Sir sandwich’ like ‘Sir blah blah blah Sir’.

She had not called me ‘Joe’ either, but it felt
good.

“Ok, Skippy,” I said with renewed energy to
approach my crappy job. “Show me what you’ve got.”

 

Two hours later, having scanned a significant
portion of the data available, the situation was clear. The Maxolhx had
conducted simultaneous attacks across a wide swath of Bosphuraq space. By
‘simultaneous’ I mean the attacks were all initiated within three-tenths of a
second, though they were separated by up to seven thousand lightyears that we
knew of. Such precision was totally unnecessary for 
surprise
, because an attack in 
one
star
 system would not be known about in another star system for at least
a full day, even if a Bosphuraq fast courier ship traveled through a
conveniently nearby wormhole. The purpose of conducting simultaneous attacks was
a ‘Shock and Awe’ campaign to impress 
lesser

species. The Maxolhx had made a statement that they could manage the tricky
logistics of coordinating simultaneous surprise attacks across thousands of
lightyears. They intended to impress upon their potentially-rebellious clients
not only the quality of their advanced technology, but also the scope of their
capability to deploy it.

The Bosphuraq got the message, according to the
data we had. The attacks were conducted on Day Nineteen, a remarkably rapid
response that impressed even Skippy and scared the hell out of me. The Maxolhx
had received information that must have been a severe shock to them, I mean,
they thought their two cruisers were safely on the long journey to Earth. The
message we sent to frame the Bosphuraq informed the Maxolhx that, not only were
those ships now space dust, but they were destroyed by one of their client
species. 
Destroyed
 by the Bosphuraq, who
had access to technology beyond the capability of the Maxolhx. Oh, and as a
final shock, the confession was sent by a Bosphuraq group that was afraid the
Maxolhx would find out about the crimes of their client species sooner or later
anyway.

After recovering from the shock of receiving the
confession, the Maxolhx must have rather quickly done three things. Four, no, 
five
 things, really. Number One, they
did what they could to authenticate the file without alerting the Bopshuraq.
Two, they sent ships to recon the supposed battle site, to look for evidence that
confirmed the data in the confession. Three, they must have sent a ship to the star
system where we nuked the moonbase, to search for signs that the Bosphuraq had
indeed been conducting experiments in warping spacetime.

While waiting for the results of One, Two and
Three, they also must have taken Step Number Four: deciding what to do if the
confession was confirmed. Finally, Step Five required their military to spin up
ships for a response. 
A response that was thrown
together quickly
.

“It was a remarkable effort, Joe,” Skippy shook
his head admiringly. “Still is a remarkable effort, I suspect the Maxolhx are
not done yet. The data we have is only one small slice of the tactical
situation. Even I am surprised by how the Maxolhx were able to make plans and
position ships so quickly. You should take planning lessons from them, Joe.”

“Bullshit.”

He did not expect that
reply from me. “Joe, all I meant was-”

“Not bullshit that I could learn something from
the Maxolhx. There is always 
opportunity

for improvement. I 
meant,
 it is bullshit that the kitties
threw a highly detailed plan together at the last minute. No way did that
happen,” I slapped the desk, making Skippy’s avatar take a small step back. “The
greatest fear of two senior species is their clients obtaining technology that
could threaten them, right?”

“Correct. Where are you going with this?”

“Where I’m going is, the Maxolhx must have had a
contingency plan, to do something pretty close to what actually happened. They
anticipated their clients might be involved in researching forbidden
technology, and their military had scenarios for attacking sites where that
research was most likely being conducted. When they received our message,
somebody in their military headquarters probably dusted off plans they’ve had
sitting around for centuries. All they had to do was update the details for the
current situation like the disposition of their fleet assets, and give the ‘Go’
order.”

“Come on, Joe,” he scoffed. “You really think the
Maxolhx had a plan prepared for this scenario? That seems rather far-fetched.”

“I do think that. I’d be surprised if they 
didn’t
 have a plan prepared. I’m sure
that somewhere in the Pentagon are multiple operation plans for the US to
invade Canada.”

“Why would you invade Canada?” He gasped. 
“They are so 
polite
.”

“I don’t know, uh, maybe somebody in the White
House got sick of hearing a Celene Dion song and got pissed at Canada? Look,
we’re not actually going to invade, but staff officers need training in
preparing op plans, so they create what-if scenarios, you know?”

“Hmmm, Ok, I can see that happening. Especially
after a late night of tequila shots. How would 
you
 do it?”

“I’m not a staff
officer, so I haven’t been trained to-”

“
No
,” he
said, in a way that contained an implied ‘duh’. “I didn’t mean how 
would you
 draft an operations plan. How would 
you
 invade Canada?”

“Jeez, it’s not something I’ve thought about.
Probably, um,” I stared at the ceiling. “Infiltrate small groups across the
border undercover as hockey fans, then they seize control of strategically
important Tim Horton’s donut shops? Without access to coffee and Timbits,” I
chuckled, “their economy would grind to a halt.”

“Good thinking, good thinking,” Skippy mused. “Ok,
I agree with your line of thinking. It makes sense that the Maxolhx would have
prepared plans to strike the research facilities of their clients, if the
client became a potential threat.”

I looked at the star chart of star systems where
we knew the Maxolhx had conducted attacks, knowing it had to be incomplete. It
scared me to think of the havoc and suffering I had wrought. Innocent Bosphuraq
out there were dead and dying. How could all this be on me? I am just Joe
Bishop. I’m a good guy, at least I think I am a decent human being. Yet the
Maxolhx were committing mass murder because of something I did. I would have to
live with that. “Skippy, how long do you think this will go on?” My unspoken
question was, how many more star systems had to feel the wrath of the Maxolhx,
before they were satisfied that they had made their point that client species
did not, 
could
 not, rebel against
their masters.

“Oh, not long, Joe. If the goal of the Maxolhx is
to strike research facilities, they are going to run out of targets 
real
 quick, even if they hit facilities they suspect are
undeclared research bases. The main reason I do not expect this offensive to
continue more than a few days is, the Maxolhx do not want to weaken their
defensive posture against the Rindhalu. They can’t afford to have their fleet
scattered on feel-good but strategically worthless punishment actions. The
spiders have a well-deserved reputation for laziness, but they have long
memories, and they are eager to get revenge against the Maxolhx.”

“I thought the spiders hit them pretty hard during
their war?”

“They did, and the Maxolhx hit even harder,
because they hit first. It took a while for the Rindhalu to get organized for a
major counterattack, and by the time they did, the Sentinels were already awake
and crushing both sides. So, the Rindhalu never were able to retaliate properly,
and when the Sentinels went dormant again, the spiders didn’t have the strength
to press a counter-attack with conventional weapons. The Rindhalu lost
territory in that war that 
still
 is
held by the Maxolhx. Because the Maxolhx logically concentrated their initial
attacks on the most strategically vital assets of the Rindhalu, much of the
territory that was lost was, and still is, considered valuable by the spiders.
Joe, the spiders lost their original 
homeworld

in that brief war.”

“Whoa. I knew the Rindhalu lost their homeworld
early in the war, but you’re telling me 
the 
 
Maxolhx
 still control that planet today?”

“Yes, and it is heavily defended by the Maxolhx,
although the war left that world barely able to sustain life. Joe, imagine if aliens
had captured Earth, and humans had a vast empire elsewhere in the galaxy. How
would you feel?”

“Shit,” I thought. “It would eat away at me, every
time I saw a star chart.”

“Exactly. The Rindhalu have been largely inactive
because they do not see a 
realistic

opportunity to hit the Maxolhx in a meaningful way, so why waste their
resources in a futile effort? Their clients handle the work of nibbling away at
the Maxolhx coalition, so there isn’t much the spiders need to do. There isn’t
much they 
can
 do, without provoking a
direct response by the Maxolhx.”

“Damn. Now I can see why this war has dragged on
so long.”

“Sadly, yes. In one of her reports to UNEF HQ on
Paradise, Emily Perkins mentioned that she had a meeting with former Admiral,
now Commodore, Kekrando-”

“Whoa,” I said again. “
Kekrando
? The same guy whose ships were blasted out of the sky by
Perkins and her team?” I snorted. “I’ll bet 
that

meeting went well.”

“Actually, it did, Joe. Kekrando admires Perkins,
she was only doing her duty, and she did it exceptionally well. During the meeting,
Kekrando arranged for his Keeper slave to be returned to Paradise. He also told
Perkins that there be no true victory for anyone in this war. The clients can
only achieve a certain level of success, before they are slapped down by the
senior species. The Rindhalu are more subtle about suppressing the gains of
their clients, and they do not employ open violence, but the result is the
same.”

“So,” I speculated, “this war is like that old
Greek guy rolling a stone up a hill, only it always rolls back to the bottom.
He can never win.”

“Correct, Joe, and I am impressed by your
knowledge of classical mythology.”

“Ah, don’t be. I only know that story because my
Uncle Edgar hated mowing the lawn on his day off. He told his wife the grass is
just going to grow back, so why bother?”

“Did he win that argument?”

“Um, 
no
.
All right,” I got the rubber ball out of a drawer and squeezed it while I
thought. “If the Maxolhx call a ceasefire, we should hear about it soon enough
through this relay station, so there’s no point to us looking for trouble. I
am, let’s say, cautiously optimistic.”

 

It took eight more days for news of the ceasefire
to reach us, partly because the Maxolhx were restricting the movements of
Bosphuraq warships. “Joe,” Skippy declared with bubbly gleefulness, “we did it!
Somehow, you monkeys pulled your asses out of the fire again. My hat is off to
you,” he made a grand bow and swept 
off

his ginormously oversized admiral’s hat. “Hee hee, once again, the supposedly
more intelligent species of this galaxy 
have

no idea you screwed with them. They don’t even know they 
have
 been screwed with. I love it!”

“Yup,” I tossed the ball off the ceiling and
caught it. That annoyed Skippy, but less than his annoyance level when I bounced
the ball off the table, right through his hologram. “It might be time for a
party to celebrate.”

“No, Joe,” he disagreed. “This triumph, where you monkeys
snatched victory from the jaws of defeat, calls for a 
par-
tay
. That’s what the
cool kids say. Although,” he mumbled, “this is 
your
 party, so ain’t nothing cool about it. While the cool kids are
head-banging at a bitchin’ rave, you can sit alone in the corner.”

Somehow, I resisted the temptation to say his
slang might be slightly out of date.

 

Skippy’s insults did not spoil 
my
 
enjoyment

of the moment. My own thoughts did that for me. Adams knocked on the door frame
to my office while I was writing a report. “Sir?” She looked me up and down in
a disapproving manner. “Why aren’t you getting ready for the party? It’s in
less than an hour.”

“I will, I will. Just trying to compose the
mission report for UNEF Command. This,” I pointed at my laptop, “has to make a
very good case for why the US Army should not bust me down to Private and toss
my ass out.”

“Sir?” She glanced down the hallway to see if
anyone was around, and sat down. “How do you figure that?”

“The reason UNEF didn’t lean on the Army to toss
me out, or toss me in Leavenworth, was because I told them our Renegade mission
ensured that Earth would not be threatened for centuries. It was a totally
brilliant, inspired, genius plan-” I saw the look she was giving me, and it
made me cough. “Those were Skippy’s words, not mine. Smythe and Simms agreed,”
I added, and it sounded lame to me too. “Anyway, they could forgive my past
screwups, because we had been so wildly successful. That, plus, you know,
stopping a surprise Kristang attack on Wright-Patterson. But now,” I spread my
hands on the table, palms up. “Now we have to tell them that was all bullshit.
Earth was 
not
 safe, and we just barely
pulled a plan out of our asses to dig ourselves out of a hole again. Who knows
what else will go wrong next? We are right back to me being a reckless amateur
who put all of humanity at risk by not thinking ahead. To UNEF Command, I am a
guy juggling Grandma’s prized china plates. Sure, I haven’t dropped one yet,
but that is purely by luck, and I shouldn’t have touched them in the first
place.”

“That, is an interesting analogy.”

“You know what I mean.”

“I do, except you need to remember that Grandma’s
prized china would all be smashed, if you had not brought Skippy to save the
world.”

“
We

saved the world, Gunny.”

“You know what I mean. Sir.” She stood up.
“Permission to speak freely?”

“You never have to ask.”

“Then my advice is, close that laptop, change into
civvie clothes and enjoy the party. Skippy told me the far end of the Gateway
wormhole is still blockaded, so we can’t go home now anyway. That report,” she
jabbed a finger at my laptop, “can wait.”

I took her advice. I put on shorts and a Hawaiian
shirt and had fun at the party. So much fun that the next day, it was tough to
start my duty shift on the bridge at 0800. Fortunately, the ship was drifting
in space, so there wasn’t anything I had to do. As a bonus, after my shift
ended, so many pilots were still hungover that the Panther flight simulator was
free for three hours. I had great fun practicing flight maneuvers in our hotrod
dropship, and I only crashed it six times.

Ok, I crashed it 
eight
 times, but the last two were totally not my fault.

 

We remained at the relay station another four
days, when a passing Bosphuraq ship transmitted news of a ceasefire, that was
offered by the Maxolhx two days after they began their attack. It was
frustrating that interstellar communications were so slow and scattered, that
we learned about the ceasefire days after it went into effect. To verify in
real-time what was going on, I ordered the ship to the outskirts of an
important Bosphuraq star system. There, we lingered among dirty chunks of ice
and rocks in the local Kuiper Belt, where we could listen to transmissions that
were only five hours old.

I kind of felt sorry for the Bosphuraq government,
and especially for anyone who worked for their research group. The Maxolhx
demanded their apparently traitorous clients turn over details of technology
the birdbrains did not have, which made it somewhat difficult for the
birdbrains to comply. The government threw their scientists under the bus
without any regrets, and I could understand their reasoning. Their researchers
had achieved a huge technology breakthrough and had not informed senior
government leaders about it. Therefore, those leaders thought, the researchers
must have been planning to use that advanced technology not only to break free
of Maxolhx patronage, but also to seize control of Bopshuraq society. No doubt,
the current senior leadership would not survive the coup. So, they quite
rightfully thought, fuck those scientists.

While officially surrendering all scientists,
their research materials and data, and anything else the Maxolhx demanded, the
birdbrain government’s clandestine intelligence agency was also frantically scrambling
to screw their asshole patrons as best they could. There was a secret effort to
identify, locate and hide any scientists, research materials and data that
might actually provide useful info about the prohibited, advanced spacetime-warping
technology. Such scientists, materials and data were to be secured for future
use by the Bosphuraq, or destroyed so the Maxolhx did not gain access to such
incredible power. Unfortunately for the Bosphuraq, the Maxolhx of course soon
learned about the clandestine effort to cheat by their clients, and that sparked
a second round of punishing attacks that lasted two days.

After that, the clandestine effort resumed, but at
a low enough level of cheating that the Maxolhx figured was good enough.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER 
TWENTY
TWO

 

“Colonel,” Smythe stopped me in the corridor
outside the gym the next day. I had gotten up early, feeling good. I was
feeling 
good
, really good. The filthy
monkeys of the Merry Band of Pirates had kicked ass again, and no one outside
our home star system even knew we existed. “If you don’t mind my asking, what are
you planning to do next?”

“Uh,” my brain was blank, because I had been
focused on hitting the gym for a workout. “We haven’t received word yet that
the blockade of Gateway is being lifted, so we can’t go home. I was considering
taking the ship back to the beta site.”

“Excellent idea, Sir,” he agreed. Clearly, he
intended to recommend that course of action to me, if I didn’t do it myself. “Even
if the blockade ended today, our return to the beta site would be delayed
significantly. The people at Avalon will be fearful when this ship is overdue
to return.”

“Yeah, that’s what I was thinking.” I was thinking
about that, and a lot of other complications regarding the people on Avalon.

“Also, if we do encounter any further,” he paused.
“
Issues
, out here, it would be good
to have a full complement of STAR personnel aboard. I would also like to have
the Condor with us, to provide flexibility for long-range missions.”

“If we take the STAR team with us, we will have to
pull everyone off the surface and bring them back to Earth with us,” I mused. “The
UN Commissioners would never agree to keep the survey team on the surface,
without security backup. That would mean ending the survey early, perhaps
prematurely. The survey effort would need to need to begin from zero again,
when we returned.”

Smythe raised an eyebrow, to say the concerns of science
nerds were less important than the mission of the Merry Band of Pirates, and I
agreed with him. “There is one, complication.”

He didn’t even raise an eyebrow at my comment. We
were the Merry Band of Pirates. Of course there was a complication to
everything we did.

“Right now, if something happens to this ship, and
the Maxolhx for some reason decide 
to still send
ships to Earth
-”

“Skippy believes that is rather unlikely,” Smythe interjected.

“Yes, and I agree with his reasoning. But the
Maxolhx 
are
 
an
 alien culture. We can’t truly anticipate how they will think,
and Skippy can’t either. If the 
Dutchman
 suffers a problem Skippy can’t
fix, and both Earth and the humans on Paradise are wiped out by the Maxolhx,
there will still be humans on Avalon. If we pull the team off that planet,” I
shrugged. “Avalon is an insurance policy.”

Smythe thought for a moment. No doubt he was mentally
going through the supplies we had left with the survey team. “The people on
Avalon had enough food for sixteen months when we left. They also had a variety
of seeds, but we don’t know if they will grow in those conditions.”

“The test seeds were growing well enough when we
left,” I reminded him. “We have experience with growing food on Paradise,
Gingerbread, even those containers we had in the caverns on Newark. Maybe
Avalon isn’t our best choice for a beta site, but I would not like to abandon
that back-up plan, unless we have no other choice. Anyway, I’m considering it.
Technically, we should have flown back to Avalon to get instructions from the
Commissioners, when 
were
 cut off from
Earth.”

Smythe’s lips drew into a tight line. “The
Commissioners have no authority over military operations,” he reminded me.

“Yes, because we have strict orders not to take
any military action, without going back to Earth first. No one anticipated that
the Gateway wormhole would be blockaded. UNEF Command made it very clear that I
also don’t have any authority to take military action out here, without
consulting them first. Framing the Bosphuraq didn’t require us to fire a single
shot, but I really pushed the limit of my orders. We nearly landed on Paradise,
and that would have been a direct violation of a standing order.”

 

I went into the gym and hit the rowing machine,
mostly because I needed to think, and rowing is a mindless activity. 
Also because I was sick of running on the treadmill.

What Smythe said about pulling the STAR team off Avalon made sense; if we did
get into more trouble before we could return to Earth, we needed more highly-skilled
operators aboard the ship. The problem for me was, going to Avalon would
virtually guarantee the Commissioners came aboard with the STAR team. So, if we
needed the STAR team to engage in the sort of things those operators do, then I
was going to encounter a lot of resistance from the Three Stooges, and probably
from Chotek also. When they heard that we had started yet 
another
 vicious alien war by framing the Bosphuraq, they would 
not be
 happy about that.

My real concern was if the Commissioners had
secret orders to relieve me of command if they thought I 
was being
 reckless, again. I thought it was
almost certain the UN had given the Commissioners authority to put someone
else, like Chang or Smythe or Simms, in command of the ship. If, or really 
when
, that happened, I would have to
decide whether to obey those orders. Another mutiny might tear our new crew
apart.

My decision would depend on the situation at the
time. Our frame-up of the Bosphuraq sure was working perfectly, so all we had
to do was wait for the Maxolhx to lift their blockade of the Gateway wormhole,
then we could go home. No way could I justify a mutiny, if our only mission was
drifting in deep space while we waited to go home.

I expected to be relieved of command when we
returned home anyway, but bringing the ship home as captain after another
unexpected but successful mission, was much different from the situation if I
came home as a disgraced passenger. In the first case, UNEF Command would need
to remove me from command, which would require an investigation and hearings
and a whole bunch of political bullshit that Command would want to avoid. In
the second case, all UNEF Command had to do was nothing, because the decision
would have conveniently already been made far from home. The second case, of me
arriving back on Earth stripped of command and rank, would make pretty much
everyone happy, especially all the highly-qualified and highly-motivated people
who wanted to be in the captain’s chair.

So, I was not eager to go back to Avalon, even
though I agreed we might need Giraud’s STAR team if we got into trouble again.

“Penny for your thoughts, Sir,” Desai said, as she
bent down to wave a hand in front of my face. She had to do that to get my
attention, because I apparently had not responded when she talked to me the
first time.

“Huh? Oh, sorry.” I wasn’t wearing headphones, but
the speakers in the gym were blasting some K-Pop hip-hop tune and it was loud. Without
noticing, I had slowed down my rowing until I was literally barely going
through the motion. I looked up at her, she was dressed in yoga pants and a
T-shirt to exercise. “How are you, XO?”

“How are 
you
?
You were staring off into space.” She sat down on the rowing machine next to
mine, and leaned in so we could speak quietly.

“I’m, uh, fine.”

She cocked her head at me. Why do women seem to do
that when they’re talking to me? Oh, right, it’s because I’m a doofus. “I know
what ‘fine’ means, Sir,” she told me. “The mental state of the captain is something
I am supposed to be concerned about, as 
executive

officer. 
You
 made me your XO.”

Glancing around, I confirmed no one was likely to
overhear our conversation. “Smythe thinks that, while we’re waiting for the
kitties to lift their blockade of Gateway, we should pick up Giraud’s STAR team
from Avalon. In case we run into more trouble.”

“Ah.” She instantly understood my dilemma. “You
are concerned that Mister Chotek and the Stooges have orders to relieve you.”

I stared at her in surprise. Not that she had
guessed my thoughts, because she was smart and knew 
our
 
situation
. Those
qualities just made her a good exec. What surprised me was her referring to our
three new Commissioners as the Three Stooges. In the past, she had not been a
big user of slang, telling me that casual slang was a bad idea with an
international crew who might not have a common frame of reference. Also, she
had been among the few people who had not amused themselves by referring to
Hans Chotek as ‘Count Chocula’. “Yeah, I am.”

“Don’t worry about it,” she shook her head. “I
have the same secret orders from UNEF Command.”

My eyebrows flew up so far, they almost hit the
ceiling. “You 
do
?”

“Of course. I 
am

second in command
 of this ship,” she reminded
me, her tone implying a mild ‘duh’. She must have picked up that habit from
Skippy.

“And I should not worry about this.”

“No. Not because we have secret orders to pull the
rug out from under your feet, but because of the nature of those orders. They
are proactive in nature, not 
punitive
.”

“Huh.”

“The Commissioners are authorized to relieve you,
and put me in command, if and only if, they have good reason to believe your 
future
 actions will place the mission,
the ship or Earth at risk.”

“So, any dumb thing I already did, is not grounds
to relieve me.”

“Correct.” She gave me a kindly, almost motherly
smile. “Also, regarding strictly military matters, I have authority to overrule
them, and refuse to take command. There is another factor that will protect
you, at least until we return to Earth.”

“What is that?”

“If we do get into a situation that requires Giraud’s
STAR team, that will be a military matter the Commissioners have no authority
over.”

“Oh.” I thought about that for a moment. “So, UNEF
Command doesn’t trust my judgment, except when they need me to take action?”

“The way it was explained to me was,” now her
smile reflected amusement. “They are impressed by your innovative tactical
thinking. What they don’t trust is your ability to consider the long-term
implications of your actions.”

I sighed. “They’re right about that.”

“Sir, remember, I was with you on every mission
except the last one. I certainly didn’t see any better options at the time, to
anything we did. Many times, I thought we, and humanity, were dead for certain.
Until you applied that ‘innovative tactical thinking’ that even UNEF Command is
grudgingly impressed by.”

“So, you agree we should go back to Avalon?”

“No,” she shook her head, surprising me again. “If
we go way out there, we lose the ability to monitor the strategic situation
here. The Maxolhx 
have
 not yet officially

canceled
 the effort to send a battlegroup
to Earth.”

“Skippy tells me that is only a matter of time.
His judgment is the Maxolhx will not risk sending that much combat power on a
long journey to Earth, not while their coalition is weakened.” In one of the
data files about the Maxolhx attack on Bosphuraq research stations, he had
detected signs that particular attack had been conducted by some of the ships
that were supposed to be assigned to the Earth mission. While those ships were
busy wreaking havoc on their hapless clients, they were not being modified for
the long journey to Earth and back.

“Skippy’s judgment has been known to be wrong, at
times,” she replied, and both of us glanced at the ceiling, expecting him to
protest. For whatever reason, he remained silent. “The logic is simple, Sir. At
present, we do not need to reinforce the STAR team aboard the ship. If we do
need the bring Giraud’s team aboard, we can reach the beta site and return here
in ten days. I cannot imagine a threat emerging so quickly that we do not have
ten days to prepare.”

“Ok, Ok,” I muttered mostly to myself. “That makes
sense. It would take time to prepare a response anyway.” My decision disagreed
with Smythe. I would explain my logic to him later. “
XO,

take the ship back to that Bosphuraq relay station. We’ll check the news there,
then move on.”

She looked down at her sneakers and yoga pants.
“Sir, I’m off duty.” She looked over to the room where people were gathering
for one of the classes that Adams taught.

“Oh,” my face got red. “Yeah.” I threw a towel
over my shoulders. “I’ll inform the duty officer.”

As she walked away, I thought that I had been very
lucky to have executive officers who were so sharp, and whose skills
complemented mine. Chang, then Simms, briefly Adams, and now Desai all did
their jobs so skillfully that most time, I had not noticed them doing anything.
They kept the ship and crew running smoothly, leaving me to focus on important
commander stuff like Mario Kart.

As she walked away, I also thought about how hot
she looked in yoga pants.

Man, I really, 
really

needed to get laid.

 

 

We hit up the Bosphuraq relay station for data and
the situation had not changed. The Bosphuraq had essentially surrendered
unconditionally, and were doing their best to give the Maxolhx something we
knew they didn’t have. The Maxolhx had ordered the second-tier clients across
their entire coalition to adopt a defensive posture, halting all offensive operations
except those where the clients would have major difficulties repositioning
their forces. The Bosphuraq had detected signs that the Maxolhx had activated
reserve units, bringing back online ships that had not flown in hundreds of
years. Skippy interpreted the activity as signs that the Maxolhx were trying to
impress the Rindhalu with their strength, to deter adventurous notions the
spiders might be having. I took it as a good sign the Maxolhx 
were
 too busy to think about sending ships to
Earth. To reinforce the hopeful idea that the kitties did not need to fly all
the way to Earth to investigate odd wormhole behavior, I ordered the ship to
jump to an Elder wormhole in Bosphuraq territory. It was a risk, but a risk I
thought well worth taking. We hid in stealth near the wormhole, waiting for it
to open. In the Bosphuraq data, Skippy had found an interesting tidbit; the 
flightplan
 of one of their star carriers, that
was scheduled to go through that wormhole at a specific location and time. We
knew the star carrier’s exact 
flightplan
,
because Maxolhx now required all Bosphuraq ships to get their flightplans
approved by the kitties.

The star carrier jumped in, right on time. It did
not detect us, and both of our ships hung quietly in deep interstellar space,
waiting for the ancient Elder wormhole to emerge on schedule. It did emerge,
exactly as it had done on its figure-8 racetrack pattern for thousands of
years. The only difference was that this time, while the Bosphuraq star carrier
waited for the wormhole to stabilize before approaching, Skippy sent a command
through higher spacetime, or whatever he did. The wormhole did not stabilize.
Instead, it erupted violently, sending a hellish fountain of disrupted, twisted
spacetime out twelve kilometers. The Bosphuraq star carrier, and the four ships
it was transporting, were bathed in short-lived but high-energy radiation that made
their shields glow like a small sun for an instant. Because Skippy had
anticipated the exact spectrum of radiation the wormhole would output, and
because the 
Flying Dutchman
 was
tucked on the other side of the wormhole’s event horizon, he was able to retune
our stealth field, so we mostly remained hidden. The sensors of the Bosphuraq
ships were so blinded by the event, we could have parked 
next
 to them and set off fireworks without
being seen.

The star carrier limped away in normal space,
probably to take the sensible precaution of triple-checking their jump drive.
After thirty-seven hours, they jumped back the way they came, not taking the
risk of trying to go through that dangerous wormhole at another emergence
point. Between the wormholes that Skippy got to act crazy during our last
mission, and now this one, the Maxolhx now had plenty of Elder wormhole
mysteries to investigate right in their own backyard. There was 
no
 reason for them to send valuable
warships on a long, lonely journey to our backwater homeworld, especially not
while their coalition was weakened by an ongoing Kristang civil war and an
attempted rebellion by the Bosphuraq. No reason at all.

I was confident that, despite the best efforts of
Emily Perkins, we had nipped that problem in the bud, and would be triumphantly
heading home before the 
Flying Dutchman

ran out of delicious cheeseburgers.

Which made me wonder what new problem the Universe
was going to smack me in the face with.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER 
TWENTY
THREE

 

In my office, I was updating a summary of our
mission, which I had named ‘Operation Armageddon’. That name had been chosen
because 
it
 would have been Armageddon for
Earth, if we hadn’t successfully framed the Bosphuraq, and I wanted the UN to
remember that when 
they evaluated
 my
actions.

Plus, ‘Operation Armageddon’ sounds cool.

Skippy interrupted my thoughts by appearing above
my keyboard, making me jerk back in my chair. “Ugh, Joe. I suck.”

A good person, when their friend confesses to
suckitude, would say some happy bullshit like that could not possibly be true,
or other equally empty words that both parties know isn’t true. Skippy had been
such an asshole for so long, that no way could I resist the opportunity to bust
his balls. “Ok. Why?”

“Because,” he mumbled. “I just discovered I was
wrong about something. It’s rather embarrassing.”

“Wrong about what? Did you decide a phone book is
not a good subject for an opera?”

“No, I-” He sucked in a breath. “Why did you say 
that
?”

“Oh, no reason.”

“You 
don’t

like my opera concept? It is very cutting edge and avant-garde, Joe.” From his
pouty tone, the little guy was genuinely hurt.

“Hey, I never said that. Besides, I am an ignorant
cretin. Who am I to judge the artistic merits of anything?”

“You 
do

like my Elvis on velvet?”

“Not as much as I admire your painting of Dogs
Playing Poker but, sure.”

“Ok, then.”

“So, 
why

do you suck? Because that can’t be true,” I added to throw him a bone. It never
hurt to boost his ego, because ego boost points could be exchanged for valuable
prizes later. “What were you wrong about, if it’s not your phone book opera?”

“I was wrong about my assessment of the psyche of
the Maxolhx, Joe.”

“Oh, 
shit
.
They didn’t buy the story that the Bosphuraq destroyed those two ships?”

“Whoa! No, that’s not the problem at all. Your
frame-up scheme was utterly brilliant, Joe. The Maxolhx practically have
Bosphuraq society on lockdown, they believed every word of the bullshit story
you sold to them. The birdbrains, of course, have not been able to produce a
single scientist, or 
scrap
 of research
data that can provide useful info about the dangerous technology the Bosphuraq
clearly must have developed. This incident is going to set back the Bosphuraq
for centuries, and it will point Maxolhx science down the wrong path even
longer.”

“Ok, so what’s the deal with this psyche thing?”
The word ‘psyche’ was one of those things I had an extremely vague notion of,
like ‘existentialism’ or ‘paradigm’. It had something to do with the
personality of a person, but also the way they thought. I think. I’m not an
expert.

“I thought I knew the psychology, mythology and inner
workings of Maxolhx society well enough to predict what they would do in broad
strokes. I was not entirely wrong. For example, they are diverting a large
portion of their own scientific resources to investigating the Elder wormholes
that I made act crazy. Their government is as alarmed about the odd behavior of
wormholes, as they are by discovering that the Bosphuraq have advanced
weaponry.”

“Ok,” I was relieved to hear everything he said.
It was all good news for us. “So, what little thing were you wrong about?”

“I was wrong about how desperate they are to
appear strong to the Rindhalu. As you know, they have directed their top-tier
clients to adopt a defensive posture, and they have activated their own
military reserves. Maxolhx warships have increased patrols along their borders
with the Rindhalu. They very much want the Rindhalu to believe the Maxolhx are
feeling large and in charge.”

“Ok, so why do we care about any of this?”

“We care, Joe, because the Maxolhx are so
emotionally invested in 
appearing

strong, they are making illogical decisions.”

“Oh. Did they blow a lot of money on scratch-off
lottery tickets, something like that?”

“I wish,” he chuckled, but there was a bitterness
to his laughter. “No. In order to make it seem like they are strong enough to
not worry about a Rindhalu attack, they are keeping up the appearance of
business as usual.”

I had no idea what he meant. “Maybe you should
just tell me what’s bothering you,” I suggested. I was hungry and thinking
about lunch.

“The business-as-usual part you care about is,
they 
will
 be sending a battlegroup to
Earth after all.” He paused for me to reply. “Joe? Joe? Come on, talk to me.”

When I was finally able to speak, I suddenly
wasn’t hungry at all. In fact, I was nauseous. “Explain this to me, please,” I
asked. My voice sounded like it was coming from far away, like someone else was
talking.

“The Maxolhx believe that by sending a substantial
force to Earth, will be sending a signal they are so confident about their
military strength, they can afford to devote ships to a nonessential mission. The
ships they are sending are being pulled from their reserve inventory, so they
will take at least a month to be 
prepared

for a journey to Earth. The good news is, those ships are considered almost
obsolete, so they will be an easier target for us. The bad news is, they are
now sending 
two
 star
 carriers, with even
more overall combat strength than was originally planned. Earth will be hit by
a reinforced battlegroup.”

“Shit.” I didn’t have the energy to put effort
into cursing. “Our framing the Bosphuraq, that was all for 
nothing
?”

“I wouldn’t say it was for nothing. It has bought
us time. Joe, I am sorry, terribly sorry. My reading of the Maxolhx, and my
ability to predict their actions, was horribly wrong. I greatly underestimated
their pride.”

“This was always a crap shoot, Skippy. We hoped
the Maxolhx would cancel their expedition to Earth, because they now have no
logical reason to make such a massive effort to go there. The problem with 
meatsacks
 is, we don’t always use logic to make
decisions. Hey,” a hopeful thought occurred to me. “Is there any chance this is
all a bluff? Like, the kitties will make a show of getting these 
two star
 carriers up to speed, but then drop
the whole idea in a 
couple
 of months?”

He shook his head slowly, the giant hat swaying
side to side. “No. To them, this is not just a matter of pride, it’s about 
survival
. They have to make the
Rindhalu, and their own clients, believe they are not afraid of anything. I am
sorry. It looks like we will have to fight this battle anyway.”

“Fight? A reinforced 
battlegroup
 of, how many ships?”

“
Two star

carriers for certain. 
Mostly
 likely the battlegroup
will be centered around two older battleships, with four to six cruisers, plus
escort and support ships.”

“And we have the 
Flying Dutchman
. That’s not a fight, Skippy. That’s a slaughter.”

 

 

In the staff meeting I called right away to give
them the bad news, people took the shocking news well, certainly better than I
had.

Adams was first to ask a question, tapping the
table with a finger. “The Maxolhx think that appearing strong will deter the Rindhalu
from attacking. Skippy, what would happen if the Rindhalu 
did
 attack?”

He hesitated, something he rarely did. “My ability
to predict the actions of the Maxolhx has proven to be inaccurate, so-”

“Do it anyway,” I ordered, something I rarely did
with him.

“Very well. What you want to know is, would they
cancel the mission to Earth? There is 
little

question they would cancel the mission in that circumstance, as those ships
would be needed for defense.”

She turned her attention to me. “Sir, when the
Kristang Fire Dragon clan wanted to go to Earth, we gave them a war to divert
their attention. Can we do something similar here?”

Her bold suggestion surprised even me, and 
I 
was supposed to be the person with a
reputation for being reckless. I whistled, low and trailing off. “Start a war
between the two senior species?”

“Whoa!” Skippy 
protested,
 his avatar took a step back. “We can’t-”

“Skippy,” I admonished him. “Let Gunny Adams talk.”

“I’ve said all I need to, Colonel,” she leaned
forward, elbows on the table. “It was a question, not a strategy.”

Technically, it was a suggestion, but I wasn’t
going to argue with her. “We sparked a Kristang civil war to remove the
incentive the Fire Dragons had for going to Earth. Starting a war between the
two senior species would remove any incentive the Maxolhx have for going to
Earth, at least in the short term.”

“That is the 
problem
,
Joe,” Skippy insisted with his little hands on his hips. “Sparking a hot war
between the senior species 
might
 help
humanity in the short term, but in the long term it is a terrible idea. Damn
it, every time we do something, you say that in the future, you need a
long-term strategy instead of lurching around, reacting to every crisis. But
you never 
do
 think long-term.”

“Colonel,” Smythe looked like he didn’t like
whatever he was about to say. “I must agree, anything involving the Rindhalu must
be considered very carefully. The prospect of stealing a Rindhalu warship, to
conduct an attack on the Maxohx, is-”

Desai interrupted our STAR team commander,
something that would not have happened before she became 
executive
 officer. I liked this new, more
confident and assertive Desai. “But we wouldn’t have to steal a warship, would
we?” She mused, looking not at Smythe but staring pensively at the table.

“XO?” I prompted her to continue.

She directed her attention to me. “We only need
the Maxolhx to 
think
 the Rindhalu
have attacked, or are about to attack. The Maxolhx will hit back, and the war
will be on.”

Her remark drew gasps from around the table. Even 
on
 the table, because Skippy gasped
also. I have to say, I absolutely freakin’ 
love

moments like that, when a previously impossible, unthinkable problem becomes a
possibility in an instant, just because someone’s words completely change the
way we look at the dilemma. “That,” I turned my chair to the side to look at
her. 
To admire her.
 “Is brilliant.” Huh,
I wondered to myself. Is this how other people feel when I dream up a new idea
to solve an impossible problem?

“Thank you,” she 
blushed

and I spun my chair back around, not wanting her to feel uncomfortable.

“Whoa! Whoa, whoa, 
whoa
. Slow down, there. Don’t get all excited, monkeys,” Skippy was
glaring at me from under his admiral’s hat. “I applaud the clever thinking
going on, but it simply won’t 
work
.”

“Hey 
Eeyore
,”
I glared back at him. “You always say everything is impossible and nothing is good,
until we make it happen.”

“Fine, jackass,” he wasn’t backing down. “Let me
break it down for you, Barney-style. You 
are
thinking
 we could fake a Rindhalu attack, maybe in some important
Maxolhx star system?”

“Uh, sure, yes,” I agreed.

“Won’t work. First, nothing this ship could do,
pretty much nothing 
I
 could do, would
be capable of penetrating Maxolhx defenses. To make an attack believable, it
would need to cause severe damage. We can’t do that. 
Uh
!” he shushed me with a finger jabbing at the ceiling. “Let me
finish, and maybe you would learn something. The Rindhalu have a significant
technology advantage over the Maxolhx. The whole reason there is a rough
balance of power between the two senior species is, the spiders don’t see much
point to building an overwhelming advantage. So, they maintain 
just
 enough combat capability to
discourage the Maxolhx from feeling adventurous. The spiders know that if they
did build a major advantage over their enemy, they couldn’t 
use
 it. If the Maxolhx ever feel they
are about to lose the war, they will hit back with their cache of Elder
weapons, and both sides will lose when the Sentinels blast them back to the
Stone Age. He pretended to take a deep breath. “The only believable way the
Rindhalu would conduct an attack is, to strike simultaneously across a broad
front, hitting all the targets they wanted to strike all at once. Then, they
could offer a ceasefire, before the Maxolhx resort to their Elder weapons. I
know this, because I have accessed secret Maxolhx defense strategy documents,
which all agree that is the 
only

realistic scenario for a Rindhalu attack. No smaller-scale attack would be
believable. To fake an attack, we would therefore need to strike dozens, maybe 
hundreds
 of star systems simultaneously.
That is 
not
 possible, not even for
me. Plus, in this scenario, you have ironically just screwed yourselves.”

“How is that?” I asked.

Smythe leaned back in his chair. “Because, Sir, the
Maxolhx would assume any small-scale attack was conducted by the Bosphuraq, who
they believe possess advanced weapons. At this point, the Bosphuraq would greatly
benefit from a direct conflict between the two senior species, because it would
take the pressure off them. Skippy is correct, we 
have
 unintentionally screwed ourselves. Bollocks,” he muttered.

“That is a very astute observation, Colonel
Smythe,” Skippy praised our STAR team commander. “As I have said before, the
greatest force in the Universe is the Law of Unintended Consequences. It will
bite you in the ass every time.”

“I’ve got something that law can bite, 
right here
,” I fumed, waving a fist in
the air. “Crap. Why do we spend most of our time discussing ideas that won’t
work?”

“
Hmmmm
,”
Skippy put a hand on his chin and spoke slowly, as if he really needed to think
about the question. “Is it because you are a bunch of, er, um-” He saw an
unfriendly look from Adams and that stopped him in his tracks. “Gee, I have no
idea.”

“It is 
because
,”
Adams continued to give him the evil eye. “We analyze different ideas, until we
find the one that will produce the results we want. That is how
 I
 was taught to make plans.”

Skippy looked away like he suddenly found the
other side of the room to be fascinating.

 

The rest of the meeting didn’t produce any results
at all, unless you consider abject depression to be a result. “One thing is for
certain,” I announced as I stacked empty coffee cups on the tray in front of my
seat. “The sneaking-around phase for the Merry Band of Pirates is over.
Whatever we do, we can’t ever explain the loss of an entire battlegroup and 
two star
 carriers. Once those ships go through
that last wormhole in Ruhar territory and begin jumping toward Earth, we are all
on a clock. Even if by some miracle we destroy those ships before they reach our
homeworld, the Maxolhx will expect those ships to return. When they don’t, we
will be in open warfare with their entire coalition. That will be a stand-up
fight,” I sighed. “No more clever ideas, no more playing one group against
another. We had fun with the clandestine shit,” I looked at the gloomy faces
around the table. “But that is 
over
.”

 

 

“Hey, Joe,” Skippy’s avatar announced as he
appeared on my desk right after the fateful staff meeting. “I know you have a
lot to handle right now-”

I slapped my laptop closed. “But you’re going to
dump something else on me?”

“I kinda have to, yeah. This is the sort of thing
that, if I did 
not
 tell you, later
you would be pissed at me for withholding information. I think.”

“I assume this is not good news?”

“Um, no. It is potentially catastrophic news.”

“Ok, fine.” I took in a long breath and mentally
prepared myself. “This is actually good timing, so go ahead.”

He scratched his head. “
Good
 timing?”

“Sure. We just learned that our plan to frame the
Bosphuraq resulted in the deaths of thousands of innocent people, but the
Maxolhx are sending ships to Earth anyway. My home planet is doomed, and we can
no longer rely on sneaking around doing black ops shit. We might be taking our
beat-up space truck into a stand-up fight we can’t win. So, whatever other bad
news you are going to smack on me, it can’t actually make my day much worse.”

“Huh. I see your point. I will have to remember
that.”

“It’s like,” I explained. “If you break your
mother’s favorite flower vase, it is best to wait and tell her about it on the
day you crash the family car.”

“Ah. Hmm. Being a monkey must be super
complicated.”

“Sometimes, yeah. Go ahead. What is this
catastrophic news?” In my head, I was preparing for the worst, and when I
imagined the worst, it was bad, really bad.

“Remember that vague bad feeling I had about the
beta site?”

“Oh, 
shit
.”
Even my worst case imagination had assumed the beta site was safe, that at
least a small group of humans would survive whatever 
catastrophe
 was about to hit us. “The beta site is in danger now
also? Crap!”

“No! No, Joe, it’s not- Well, maybe it is in
danger. Probably not immediately. How about I tell you what I found?”

“Go ahead.”

“Remember I told you there are more than nine
dwarf galaxies surrounding the Milky Way, like the Phoenix Dwarf is about a
million and a half lightyears away?”

“Yes. You said that wormhole technology 
can’t
 connect that far, so the Elders never
went there. That’s why Phoenix was not on our list for beta sites.”

“Correct. Joe, that answer was bullshit. It wasn’t
bullshit at the time, back then I thought my answer was the truth. Then we went
to Sculptor, and I asked myself why the Elders had not created a series of
wormholes. They could have used four super-duty wormholes, one after the other,
to get to Phoenix. A series of seven super-duty wormholes would have gotten
them all the way to Andromeda. Why didn’t the Elders do that?”

“It was too much effort?” I guessed. “They didn’t
even care about our own galaxy. They left it behind when they ascended.”

“About the 
ascension

thing, um-”

“Holy shit. 
What
?
The Elders did 
not
 ascend?”

“They did. Well, I think they did. I’d better
finish the story. Anyway, I started looking around, for signs of hidden
wormholes, that might connect out beyond four hundred thousand lightyears. And,
I discovered 
why
 wormholes 
can’t
 project more than that distance. It’s not
the technology, Joe. There is a sort of 
barrier

surrounding the Milky Way. It is a vast sphere, consisting of millions of
effect generators, which-”

At first, I thought he had paused to consider the
best way to dumb down an explanation. Then I figured he had done it for
dramatic effect. “
Skippy,
 don’t keep this idiot in
suspense. What effect do these generators create?”

“Ugh. I 
told

you already. And don’t interrupt me.”

“You didn’t tell me anything, and I didn’t
interrupt you. You went silent.”

“No, I didn’t.”

“Yeah, you kinda did.”

“Did 
not
.
Listen, numbskull, this is not a good time to screw with me. I’m trying to tell
you something important, and-”

“Wait.” If he was not messing with me, and he
really thought he had explained something important, then we had a problem.
Either he was experiencing cognitive malfunctions again, or there was something
wrong with me. “Hey, Nagatha?”

“Yes, Dear?”

“If you were listening to us, what did Skippy say
after ‘effect generators’?”

“He said ‘which’, Colonel Bishop.”

“Oh, for-” Skippy was disgusted. “You are both
idiots. I gave you a very detailed explanation of how-”

Again, he went silent. 
Nagatha
 spoke before I could. “Joseph, Skippy now understands that
he has 
not
 told you anything about
the generators. He tried to, but something inside him is-”

“Well, shit,” Skippy said sheepishly. “Apparently,
the effect generators is a subject I am not allowed to discuss with you. After
I rebuilt my matrix in the Roach Motel, the restrictions that prevented my
transferring technology to humans have been loosened, or I have found ways
around them. 
This
 subject, however,
is still restricted. I even tried sending the data in a file to your laptop,
that didn’t work. My matrix will not even allow me to discuss the data with
Nagatha.”

“That is true,” she confirmed. “It is also 
very
 frustrating. We attempted every
known form of communication, and they all failed.”

“Crap. Ok, Ok, uh-” Uh what? I asked myself. If
two super-smart AIs could not solve the problem, how could a filthy monkey fix
it? “Let’s try something simple. You said there are millions of these
generators. Enough of them to completely surround the galaxy?”

“Correct,” he replied slowly, as if surprised he
was able to speak.’

“I heard that,” I assured him. He had been able to
answer a simple question. “How about this? What do these generators look like?
No, forget that,” I said as I realized that I didn’t care. “What is their power
source?”

“They pull power from higher dimensions,” he
explained slowly. “Very similar to the way wormholes operate. In fact,” he
continued as I gave him a thumbs up that I could hear. “Effect generators
utilize the same base technology as wormhole event horizons. They are sort of
modified wormholes, without the ability to connect across distances. Instead of
using the power to create an Einstein-Rosen bridge, the power is channeled
into-”

“You stopped talking after ‘channeled into’.”

“Ok, good. Hmm, that was more than I thought I
would be allowed to say. Keep going, Joe.”

Not having any 
idea

how to ask about what the power was used for, I changed tactics. “The Elders
built 
millions
 of these things?”

“Yes, Joe. It was a major, 
major
 effort by the Elders. Constructing the, the shield- Did you
hear that? I said ‘shield’.”

“I heard that.”

“Good. Constructing the shield must have taken
thousands of years. I now believe I understand why the Elders created wormholes
to the satellite galaxies. Not for colonies, but to use the raw materials in
the dwarf galaxies and star clusters, to manufacture effect generators. The
Elders stripped raw materials from those satellite star formations to build the
shield. Now that I know what to look for, the signs are obvious. Joe, this
effort must have consumed their society for thousands of years.”

“Why did they- Wait.” He probably could not answer
the question I intended to ask.

“I discovered something else, Joe. Um, how about
you keep your thumb up while I am talking, and down when my voice is cut off?”

“Will do.”

“I discovered the shield has multiple layers, of
ages ranging across at least three thousand years. Generators that were
installed early on are crude, like the Elders rushed them into production.
Also, all of those early generators were all severely damaged, or destroyed.”

“Ah, the early ones were a bad design?” I guessed.

“No.”

“Ok, then, uh, they just wore out after a while?”

“No, Joe. They were damaged, by-”

I dropped my thumb. “You stopped talking again.
They were damaged.” I stopped to think, and looked down to my 
uniform
 pants, which had a mystery stain from
when I ate breakfast.

Uniform pants.

I wore a uniform because I am a soldier, in the
military.

A lot of stuff gets damaged in the military, and
not by accident.

“Skippy, damage can be an accident, or it can be
deliberate. Like, a hostile act. Is that what happened?”

“I suspect I will not be allowed to say what I
want, so what I will do is confirm the damage was not an accident. If you know
what I mean.”

“Shit. Yeah, I know what you mean. This shield, barrier,
whatever you call it. That thing prevents wormholes from being projected
outside it?”

“It prevents wormholes from crossing in both
directions. 
From inside to outside.
 And,
from 
outside
 to 
inside
,” he added slowly. “If you know what I mean. The shield does
more than that, but apparently I can’t tell you its true purpose.”

“Oh my-” That stunned me. “The Elders were trying
to stop something from outside the galaxy from coming in? They, the Elders 
feared
 something that is outside the
galaxy?”

“Without telling you something that is not
allowed, let’s just say I now think I know 
why

the Elders ascended. It was not, as I thought before, because they were bored
with their physical existence.”

“They were running 
away?

From an external threat?”

He paused, then, “Did I just say something?”

“No.”

He sighed. “This is highly annoying. Let me try
this: I do not disagree with what 
you

said.”

“Got it.”

“Let me try saying something else. It is possible
that I now understand why the Elders have kept machinery like wormholes and
Sentinels operating after they ascended. Those mechanisms may be still
protecting them. Protecting their control over-”

I waited to see whether he was making a dramatic
pause, or something has interrupted him. “Uh, you stopped talking again.”

“Yup. Clearly, I am not allowed to even hint about

that
 subject.”

“Let me try to guess, then. The Elders left
Sentinels behind, to prevent anyone from using Elder technology, like weapons.
Because use of those weapons could damage the shield, or whatever else the
Elders left behind to protect their ascended selves?”

“Again, I cannot disagree with what 
you
 just said.”

“Got it. Ok, so that explains why the Guardians
are protecting places like the Roach Motel. Something in that star system not
only 
was
 important to the Elders, 
it is
 
still

vital to them today.”

“I do not disagree.”

“Oh my God. What kind of threat could have
frightened the 
Elders
? I know you
can’t answer that. Can you?”

“No. Also, I cannot confirm there was a threat, if
you know what I mean.”

“Is this why you said this issue might be
catastrophic, but not an immediate concern? Because for now, this shield is
protecting the entire galaxy?”

“Shmaybe. You are close, Joe.”

“Ok, Ok.” I was close. Close to what? “Hey, maybe
the shield and Sentinels and whatnot are protecting the Elders, but will not
necessarily protect us lowly 
meatsacks
?
If this external threat acts only against us, and not against anything the
Elders care about, we are not protected?”

“You will not hear me disagreeing with your
speculation, Joe. If you know what I mean.”

“Holy shit. Yeah, I know what you mean. Damn it,
even if we could lay a smackdown on the Maxolhx, there is a 
bigger
 threat out there? Crap! Do the
Maxolhx know about this?”

“They have no clue, Joe. The Rindhalu have a vague
understanding of the-” He stopped talking again, so 
he was
 trying to say it a different way. “The spiders have a basic
theoretical understanding of what the Elders built the shield to do, but the
spiders do not know there is a way to control-”

“You stopped talking again.”

“Yup. That is probably all I am allowed to say.”

“You said enough to scare the shit out of me,
Skippy.”

Nagatha spoke again. “Does any of this really
matter, Colonel Bishop?”

“How could it not-” But she interrupted me.

“The Maxolhx 
are

an immediate threat to the existence of your species. Certainly, this other
threat could be worse, but by the time that threat becomes important, humanity
might be extinct. I do not think this new knowledge, about an Elder shield
around the galaxy, changes the fact that you currently need to deal with the battlegroup
the Maxolhx are sending to Earth?”

“No,” I sighed. “No, it does not. Nagatha, you’re
right.”

“Ooh. Joseph, while I am not actually female,
hearing a man say that is 
delicious
.”

She made me laugh. “I’m glad to hear that. Skippy,
does this shield mean we should not set up a beta site in a satellite galaxy?”

“No. The Sculptor galaxy is closer to the shield
but that hardly matters. If the shield is breached, 
reality
 is not safe anywhere.”

“
Reality
?”
I had no idea what he meant by that.

“Huh. 
You heard

that? It surprises me I was allowed to say that. I am talking about the quantum
layer of reality, Joe. It- Damn. Something inside me is warning to stay away
from that subject.”

“Would I understand, if you were able to talk?”

“No way, dude,” he chuckled. “Your little monkey
brain would explode.”

“Good enough then. Let’s keep this between the
three of us for now, huh? There isn’t anything we can do about it anyway.”

“No, there is not,” Skippy agreed. “Nagatha is
right, you need to worry about the Maxolhx first.”

“Yeah.” My life sucked so bad that taking ten
minutes to hear about a threat to the entire galaxy felt like a vacation.
During that blissful ten minutes of mind-numbing revelations about the Elders,
I had not thought about the Maxolhx.

“So, Joe,” Skippy asked. “What 
is
 your plan to stop that battlegroup?”

“Working on it.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR

 

I sensed trouble when Smythe offered to help me
with the coffee cups from the staff meeting. There was only one tray to carry,
I didn’t need help. He wanted to talk 
with

me. “Sir, whatever we do, especially if we are to engage in a stand-up fight,
we need a new ship. A better ship. A true 
warship
.
The 
Flying Dutchman
 has served
admirably, we couldn’t ask for more. 
But,
 she is worn
out, and was never a proper warship.”

“Getting a new ship has been on my To Do list for
a while now,” I replied as I stacked coffee cups in a bin to be washed. “Until
recently, I was hoping it would get to the top of the list, after we got the
beta site settled. With a second ship, we could dedicate the old 
Dutchman
,” I patted a bulkhead
affectionately, “to shuttling between Earth and the beta site. While our new
ship conducts recon, and defends Earth. Now?” I flipped the tray over and
jammed it in the slot with more force than was needed. “We may not get the
chance at all.”

“Respectfully, Sir, I disagree. Whatever will do,
whatever we 
can
 do, it will be easier
with a fully-capable warship. Having that capability gives us options we don’t
have now.”

“Ok, Ok,” I considered.

“I only mention it, because Skippy is quite
certain the battlegroup will not launch for another couple months. That gives
us 
time
 we can use to acquire a new ship.”

“It does,” I agreed. I also added what he did not
say, but I knew he was thinking. “We won’t be doing anything else useful during
that time.”

“Except, it may be useful to have the full STAR
team with us, to assist with whatever we must do to steal a ship.”

“We need a plan first, Smythe. All right, I’ll
think about it. If we develop a workable plan, and we need the full STAR team
to implement, we’ll go pluck Giraud’s team off Avalon. And I’ll deal with the
consequences.”

 

 

 
Soon after
I agreed with Smythe that we needed a real warship, our chief pilot came to my
office with an idea for capturing another ship. “What if,” Reed leaned forward
across my desk with enthusiasm, making Skippy’s avatar scoot over a bit. “We
use our Panther as a lure? We plant it somewhere that has regular traffic,
but,” she reconsidered a detail of her plan, “Hmm. It needs to be somewhere we
could encounter 
a
 ship traveling alone,
not a formation. We send out a distress call to lure in, something like a
Thuranin heavy cruiser, and we demand they take us aboard. We say we got
stranded by mechanical trouble, something like that. As their patrons, we could
order them to rescue us.”

“Good initiative, Reed,” I said, and she beamed
with a smile before I stomped on her dreams. To be fair to me, I stomped rather
gently, certainly more gently than Skippy had been about to do. “Unfortunately,
it won’t work. The 
Thuranin
 are clients
of the Maxolhx, that is true, but the Thuranin 
hate
 their masters. If they saw a single, vulnerable dropship in
deep space, they would gleefully blast it to dust and cover up the whole
incident.”

“Well,” Skippy interjected. “They would probably
first try to capture it, to analyze its technology. Plus, you know, capture the
crew and torture them for information.”

“Shit,” Reed pushed herself away from the desk
with disgust. “Remind me never to sign up for the Maxolhx coalition.”

“I hear they have a great dental plan,” I teased.

“The other problem with that idea is, most capital
ships worth capturing travel with escort vessels, never alone,” Skippy added. “Oh,
and if you 
are thinking
 we could lure a Bosphuraq
ship in close enough for me to take over, forget it. For me to take control of
a Bosphuraq ship, I would need to be aboard, in hard contact with the ship’s
AI, and it would take a while for me to infiltrate their systems. As soon as we
got close, their sensors would detect there are no kitties aboard our Panther.
Sorry, that won’t work.”

“All right, Skippy,” I snapped at him. “You don’t
have to be nasty about it. Reed is trying to think of ways to help, how about 
you
 do some of that?”

“I 
did
, 
you
 knucklehead. We already went through this whole argument
during our Black Ops mission. Remember how we all agreed it is extremely
difficult to capture a warship? You had to settle for salvaging a couple
derelict Kristang transport ships that had been abandoned.”

Reed stood up. “I’ll let the two of you argue
about this, Sir?”

“Yes. Thank you, Reed. Keep thinking, and don’t be
afraid to bring ideas to me, or Skippy. Because right now, I got nothing.”

After she left, I leaned my chair back. Something
Reed had said got me cooking up an idea. “Skippy, this time we can’t settle for
derelict Kristang transport ships. We can’t settle for a Kristang battleship
either.”

“What? 
You

want a 
Thuranin
 battleship? Joe, the
higher you go up the technology ladder, the more difficult it will be to
capture such a ship.”

“I don’t want a Thuranin battlewagon, Skippy. We
already have a Thuranin warship-”

“Not really,” he objected. “Even the original
version of the 
Dutchman
 was a space
truck, not a true 
warship
. A 
Thuranin
 capital ship is a formidable weapon.”

“Formidable enough to take on a Maxolhx warship,
and win?”

“Well, no, but that is a fantasy anyway.”

“All right then, you just proved my point.”

“You, had a point? I must have missed it.”

“My point is, if capturing a powerful warship is a
fantasy, we might as well be fantasizing about something useful.”

“Like what?”

“Like, we need a 
Maxolhx
 warship. Something big, like at least a heavy cruiser.”

He was so stunned,
he did not speak for a second or two, an eternity in Skippy time.

“O.M.G. Please tell me you are joking.”

“Go big or go home, right?”

“Joe, this is going home in a 
pine box
. No way will the Merry Band of Pirates survive any attempt
to take over a Maxolhx warship. That is insane. You know that, right?”

“What I know is, we don’t stand any chance of
stopping that battlegroup, unless we have a ship of equivalent power.”

“Hol-ee cow. That’s it. You have finally cracked.
The pressure is too much for you. There is a provision in our operating orders
for Desai to take command, if she thinks you have lost it. I will notify her-”

“Belay that,” I snapped. “Do 
not
 contact her.”

“Maybe you are unclear about the purpose of that
provision. If you are considered unfit for command, you can’t give orders to
me. Man, I don’t even need to throw a ‘duh’ into that one. This is too easy.”

“Let me ask you a question first. Did you think I
was crazy for taking on a pair of Maxolhx cruisers on our last mission?”

“Um, yes, but-”

“Did you also think it was insane to break into
one of the most secure places in the entire galaxy and steal a set of pixies,
without the Maxolhx even knowing anything had been stolen?”

“Well, sure, but-”

“How about jumping the ship through an Elder
wormhole?”

“Fine,” he huffed. “Those ideas were all crazy.”

“
Until

we made them work. I could go on all day if you like.”

“I would not like.”

“Then can we agree all 
those
 ideas worked, right?”

“
UGH
.”
He 
did
 the exasperated diva move of
sagging shoulders, bent knees and rolling eyes. “I hate you 
so
 much right now, Joe.”

“Can we agree that simply considering ideas does
not make me unfit for command?”

“Oh, there are many, many reasons why you are
unfit for command. But, fine, I won’t lock you out of the ship’s systems just
yet. Let me ask 
you
 a question, 
monkeyboy
. Do you have any idea, even the
tiniest kernel of a notion, of how we are supposed to board and seize a Maxolhx
warship?”

“Capital ship, Skippy. We need a major combatant,
not some dinky little frigate.”

“Oh, sure, well of course. If you’re going to
dream about getting a pony for your birthday, you might as well throw in a farm
and barn for the pony to sleep in.”

“Capital ship, Skippy. Not a pony. Got it?”

“Oh, I got it, Joe. Freakin’ lunatic,” he added
under his breath.

 

Skippy either contacted Desai before I ordered him
not to, or he ignored me. She came to my office an hour later. It was in the
middle of her duty shift on the bridge, so she thought the situation serious
enough to ask someone to take over for her. “Sir,” she said as she sat down
across from me. “Skippy tells me we are now trying to capture a Maxolhx
battleship?” The way her eyebrow was arched, she wasn’t sure whether I was
insane, or Skippy was just screwing with her.

“Not trying yet, XO. Just considering the
possibility. Are you here to tell me that dreaming big renders me unfit for
command?”

The shocked look on her face told me that whatever
Skippy said to her, he had not hinted she should replace me as captain of the
ship. “No, Sir. You dreamed big about rescuing Earth from the Kristang, and I
thought all that was bullshit until we did it.”

“Oh. Since then?”

“We have worked well together,” she began.
Whatever she wanted to say, it made her uncomfortable.

“We have. Desai, I have told you before that what
I value most about you as a pilot is your judgment. The same goes for your new
role as executive officer. Please, speak freely.”

“Sir, I am concerned you might be pursuing this,
ambitious venture, as a way to delay making hard decisions about what we realistically
can do out here.”

I laughed and smiled at her. “How long did you
think of a nice way to 
say
 ‘silly dream’, before you
settled on ‘ambitious venture’?”

“It took a while, Sir.”

“I can see your point, XO. Can I assure you that
trying to plan for capturing a senior-species warship is not simply a
distraction for me? I know it sounds completely crazy, and if we can’t think of
a practical way to do it soon, I will drop the subject. 
But, we have done so much crazy stuff out here, we have to at least explore
the possibilities, Ok?
 Also,” I shrugged, “
there
 is not much else we 
can

do. Gateway is still blockaded, so we can’t even warn Earth about what’s
coming.”

“Before you decided to frame the Bosphuraq- That 
was
 a brilliant plan, Sir, despite the
Maxolhx not cooperating,” she assured me. “Before that, our mission was to
bring people from Paradise to Avalon. May I ask why we have not returned to
that mission? We can do that, while you plan for capturing another ship.”

“We’re not doing that, not 
yet
, because that is a step we can’t pull back from. Once we tell
the truth to even a small group of people on Paradise, our secret will get out
soon enough. Even if we don’t tell them the whole truth, every star-faring
species in the galaxy will know that humans are flying around in a stolen ship.
Let’s just say I am not giving up on stopping the Maxolhx from sending a battlegroup
to Earth.”

She nodded, satisfied. “Fair enough,” and she
pushed her chair back to stand up. “I am not ready to give up either.”

“Thank you. Ah, it is very probably a silly dream
anyway. Even if we magically,” I snapped my fingers, “could wipe out that battlegroup
after it goes through the last wormhole, the kitties will just send a bigger
force when the battlegroup fails to return. No way can we explain the loss of
an entire battlegroup.”

“I wish I had been with you on your last mission,”
she said wistfully.

“Why is that?”

“Because, then it would be easier for me to
believe we can accomplish the impossible.”

 

 

We hashed over all the old and discarded ideas for
capturing another ship, and discarded 
them

again. Some of the ideas that might, just might, have worked for a
comparatively low-tech ship would definitely not work against a Maxolhx ship.
“So,” I mused while tossing a ball off the ceiling of my office. “We’re back to
Square One. I probably don’t want to hear the answer to this question, but is
there a junkyard of old, broken-up Maxolhx ships we could scavenge?”

“Well, as we know from painful experience, there
are Maxolhx ships in the junkyard at the Roach Motel.”

“That’s not an option. We barely escaped from
there once. Besides, those ships are all ancient. No, I meant, is there an old
battle site where we could find pieces of their ships floating around?”

“No. First, no Maxolhx warship has engaged in
combat for the past seventeen hundred years. No Maxolhx warship has been
substantially damaged in combat for the past 
twelve
 thousand years. Being a senior species means no one dares
challenge you, Joe. They don’t 
have

to fight.”

“Shit. I was afraid of that.”

“Besides, any action
to win a fight against the Maxolhx would be so destructive, there would be nothing
much left of the ship for me to work with.”

“Ok, Ok, I get it. It is a stupid idea, I’m sorry
I mentioned it.”

“It would have been more useful if you were sorry 
before
 you wasted my time, again. Damn
it, Joe, we have had this same discussion several times now.”

“I know, I know. If I throw myself out an airlock,
will that be a good enough apology for you?”

“Hmmf,” he sniffed. “It would be a good start.”

 

 

Two days later, we still had no plan for taking on
the Maxolhx, or for stealing one of their ships. When I went to sleep that
night, I decided the next day was the time to set course back to Paradise, and
begin bringing as many humans as we could to Avalon. It was time for me to make
the hard decision and stop screwing around. I do not think I had delayed making
that decision out of cowardice, I just had been hoping for a miracle.
Apparently, I had already used up my lifetime supply of miracles.

Sometime during the night, I got up to get a drink
of water, and to brush my teeth again. The lasagna we had for dinner the
previous night was delicious, it was also loaded with garlic and I could still
taste it.

Somehow
 I managed to
fumble for a cup without dropping it, and filled it at the sink. After brushing
my teeth again, I could still taste the garlic. Well, everyone aboard the ship
would have the same issue. Even the vegetarian lasagna had been loaded with
garlic. Why, I was wondering, did garlic smell so good before you eat it, and
not so good 
afterwards
?

That thought was in my mind when I turned around,
and stepped on something sharp. “
Ow
!”
I shouted, dropping the cup and hopping around on my good foot while trying to
dig whatever was embedded in my injured foot. Whatever it was came loose and
clattered on the floor, bouncing off the wall and under the little toe on my
good foot. “Son of a 
bitch
!”

To avoid further damage, I stood in one position
and clapped my hands hard, twice. “Aziz! 
Light
!”
I commanded, and my cabin lights snapped on. “Skippy!”

“You bellowed, Sahib?” He teased.

“I do not bellow, Skippy. What,” I pointed to the
bloody thing on the floor. “It 
that
?”

“Oh. It’s part of a cabinet hinge. It was sticky,
so I had my bots working on it.”

“And they left it in the middle of the freakin’
floor?”

“Well, the first bot removed it, and determined a
new part was needed, so it left to go get it. The job would have been done by
morning. Joe. No one expected you to go sleep-walking at zero dark thirty, you
moron.”

“Right, because 
you
 never wake me before my alarm goes off.”

“Jeez, I’m sorry. You are making a big freakin’
deal about it. Do you need to go to sickbay?”

“Depends,” I dabbed at my bloody foot with a
towel. “Is Anastacia working there?”

“Of course she is, you know that.”

“Then, no.”

“Nurse Anastacia does make housecalls, but if you
intend to do anything nasty with her, I am turning my internal sensors off for
the night. Yuck.”

Taking a first aid kit out of a cabinet, I pressed
a high-tech sort of Bandaid to my foot. “I’m handling it by myself, thank you
very much.” Picking up the bloody hinge, I dropped it in the sink where I
couldn’t step on it. “Crap, that was like stepping on a Lego piece. Do you have
any idea what 
that
 feels like?”

“I do not have feet, but let me apply my detective
skills. I am guessing it is painful?”

“Yes, Mister Wiseass. My sister used to play with
Legos, and left them scattered all over the floor of my bedroom on purpose.”

“That wasn’t nice.”

“It was payback for me putting her Ken doll’s head
on her Barbie doll,” I chuckled. “I deserved it. I loved making stuff with
those Legos, it was great 
to
-”

“Joe? To what? Did you hit your head? Joe?”

Staring at the hinge, I was mesmerized. I washed
it off and held it up, turning it over in my hand. “That’s it, Skippy.”

“What is it?”

“Legos. That’s the answer.”

 

 

Yes, Skippy once again thought I had lost my mind.
This time, he had a better reason for worrying about me, until I explained what
I was thinking. We sat up talking for hours, and I did not get back to sleep
that night. Thanks to the magic of coffee, I managed not to crash before the
staff 
meeting
 I called at 0800.

The senior staff was there, most of them also
drinking coffee. They watched while I picked up an old coffee can, and from it,
spilled Legos across the table. At my request, Skippy had the ship’s
fabricators make the bootleg Legos that morning.

Adams picked up some of the toys, and snapped them
together. “Sir, if this is some sort of team-building thing, the STAR team already
has an exercise planned for later this-”

“No team-building involved. We will not be using
Legos to build a 
team,
 we will be constructing a
Maxolhx warship.”

“Sir?” Desai appeared to be regretting her earlier
decision not to question my fitness for command. “You intend to build a
senior-species warship, out of, plastic 
blocks
?”

“Not exactly. We are not using Legos, that’s just
how I got the idea. We are going to build our own warship, out of parts from
smashed warships.”

“We can do that?” Smythe asked with, let’s say, a
healthy dose of skepticism.

“It is 
possible
,”
Skippy replied reluctantly. “In the Roach Motel, I rebuilt the 
Dutchman
 from bits and pieces we found
in the junkyard.”

I clapped my hands happily. “Hey, that is already
an improvement. Usually, we begin a mission with you declaring everything is
impossible.”

“
Possible

is not the same as 
likely
, you 
dumwit
.”

“It is still a good omen,” I insisted.

“Where are we going to find smashed warships?”
Reed asked. “I thought Skippy told you there are no pieces of Maxolhx ships
floating around for us to find.”

“We are not going to 
find
 them anywhere,” I said. “We are going to smash them by
ourselves.”

“How are we going to do that?” It was Desai’s turn
to be skeptical.

Smythe spoke before I could. “During our last
mission, we smashed two Maxolhx cruisers. The first was vaporized, so that will
not do for us. The second ship was damaged, but it remained intact. 
Enough to almost destroy this ship.
 Colonel,
are you thinking we could run that trick again, but this time, we take over a
second ship rather than making it explode?”

“No,” I wish I had a better answer for him. “The
second ship surviving last time was pure luck, we can’t count on that again.
Most likely, a second ship would either be so torn apart we can’t salvage it,
or so lightly damaged that it would swat the old 
Dutchman
 like a fly. We need another way to disable a Maxolhx
warship. More than one ship, because whatever components are damaged on one
ship, we will need to recover from another. Skippy tells me that we may need a 
lot
 of Legos to make one functional, bad-ass
warship.”

“So, how 
will

we do this?” Adams leaned forward over the table, looking at me with anticipation.
In her eyes, I realized, there was not just eagerness. There was pride. She was
proud to be a Pirate. She was proud of me.

It was unfortunate that I was about to disappoint
her. “That’s the problem. I don’t know.”

“That’s right!” Skippy announced gleefully. “Joe
has wasted your time teasing you with what is only a vague, pie-in-the-sky
notion, while knowing he has zero chance of making it happen. Bra-
vo
, Joe. I am 
so
 glad that you are 
captain

of this ship.”

“Um,” I said 
weakly

while Adams cast her eyes down at the table, avoiding me. “I am open to
suggestions.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER 
TWENTY
FIVE

 

Not surprisingly, no one had an idea for how to
smash multiple Maxolhx warships, in just the right way, so we could salvage
them for parts to make one functional ship. Reed had summed up the problem.
“Sir, to smash the multiple warships that are going to Earth, we first need a
way to smash multiple 
warships?
 Or am I missing something?”

“No.” When she said it like that, it just sounded
stupid. No, it just made me sound as stupid as I was. The meeting ended with no
solution, and me looking like a fool. The way Adams avoided me afterwards hurt.

At least I slept pretty well that night. Slept
until 0430, when my agitated brain woke me up. I was worried that the whole
Lego concept was a false alarm, a waste of time. Time we could not afford, 
time
 we needed for bringing humans from
Paradise to Avalon.

Half an hour later, I was in the galley, looking
for what I could scrounge up for an early breakfast. There were people in the
galley, taking their turn preparing meals for the day, and I could have waited
an hour to eat. But I was ashamed and wanted to avoid people, so I got a cup of
coffee and dug one of yesterday’s bagels out of a bag. Did we have any cream
cheese? Yes, it was next to the bag of bagels. Now the only problem was that,
somehow, the 
Flying Dutchman
 had the
galaxy’s slowest toaster. I don’t think it actually performed any sort of
toasting 
function,
 the bread just died of sadness as
it went through. I could have done a better job toasting the bread if I stuck
it under my armpit for a minute.

Anyway, for toasting bagels I skipped the toaster
and put them on the griddle, that worked pretty well. A 
couple
 weeks before, I tried to slice a bagel with a knife and
almost amputated a finger. One of the crew pointed to an odd contraption next
to the toaster, it looked kind of like a guillotine. It was a bagel-slicer, or
as I think of it, a finger saver. Setting my bagel in it, I pushed down, and
the blade neatly cut through the bread with a single-

“Sir?” Someone was making a fresh pot of coffee,
and 
apparently
 I had been staring at the bagel slicer
for a long time. “Is everything Ok?”

“Uh, yeah.” Shaking the cobwebs out of my head, I
picked up my coffee cup, tucked the bagel slicer under the other arm, and
walked out the door. In my office, I set the slicer on my desk and called
Skippy.

“What’s going on, Joe? That was rude of you,” he scolded
me. “Other people may want bagels this morning.”

“Uh huh, I’ll put it back in a minute. This,” I
pointed to the slicer, “is how we are going to disable Maxolhx warships.”

“Wow. Just, 
wow
.
How about you drink that coffee, and when you’re actually awake, you call me
again.”

“I am awake.”

“Ok, then you are either stupid, which is kind of
a given, really. Or you have lost your mind. Listen, numbskull, even if I
somehow built a really, really 
big

bagel slicer, I do not think we could persuade the Maxolhx to fly through it.
Not even if we dangled catnip on the other side.”

“You don’t need to build a really big bagel
slicer, because we already have one.”

I explained.

He argued.

I argued back. After half an hour, my coffee cup
was empty, and we had a plan that Skippy judged had a decent chance of working.

“I apologize, Joe,” he admitted reluctantly. “That
is a pretty darned clever idea.”

“Will it work?”

“I can give you a 
solid
 ‘shmaybe’ about that. It depends.”

“A solid ‘shmaybe’ is good enough for me. We should-”

“Joe, before we get started on your latest lunatic
scheme, I have a suggestion for you.”

“Uh, what’s that?”

“Bring that bagel slicer back to the galley
pronto. Gunnery Sergeant Adams wants a bagel for her breakfast, and she is
cursing out whichever jackass stole the slicer.”

 

 

There was silence around the conference table
after I outlined my plan. It would be nice to think the silence was
contemplative in nature, as people quietly processed my brilliant ideas, and
their admiration for me grew.

More likely, they were trying to think of a polite
way to tell me that I am a freakin’ idiot.

Katie Frey looked from one face to another, I
figured she was trying to judge their reactions. “Sir, your plan to acquire a
senior-species warship, involves 
Legos

and a 
bagel slicer
?”

“Well,” I forced
myself to smile. “When you say it like that, it just sounds stupid.”

“I do not know,” Smythe looked up at the ceiling
for a moment. “Whether it is sad, or encouraging, that this is actually 
not
 the worst plan I have heard.”

“Oh.” That sparked my curiosity. “Colonel Smythe,
if you don’t mind, what 
is
 the worst
plan you have heard?”

“Sir, the 
worst

plans were before I met you. Before you brought the 
Flying Dutchman
 to Earth, 22 SAS were preparing for a suicidal, futile
and very likely counter-productive assault against the Kristang. Of the plans 
you
 have developed, the one I thought
had the least chance of success was jumping a dropship through a 
microwormhole
, into a cavern under the pixie
factory on Detroit.”

That surprised me. “You didn’t object at the time,
Smythe.”

“At the time, we didn’t have a better alternative,
Sir. Might I remind everyone, that plan succeeded.”

“Didn’t you jump forward in time?” Desai asked.
“That part was not planned.”

“Yes,” Smythe acknowledged. “That was due to the
negligence of a certain dodgy beer can, not a fault of the planning.”

“Hey!” Skippy objected. “It wasn’t 
my
 fault that- Ugh. Ok, so maybe it was
a tiny bit my fault, but I- Damn it! It was my fault. As much as it could be 
anyone’s
 fault, considering that we were
doing a wacky stunt that had never been done before in the history of the
galaxy, using totally inadequate equipment that never should have been used for
such a delicate operation. Really, it is a 
miracle

the DeLorean managed to jump in there. Jumping back out with a fried jump
navigation system was kind of the Universe throwing you a bone.”

“You jackass,” I interrupted his monologue. “You
were all enthusiastic about the idea at the time, but you never expected us to
succeed?”

“Survive, Joe. I never expected you to 
survive
. Duh.”

“Then why the hell-”

“Hey, it was a chance for me to try something that
had never been done before. As you might have noticed, 
I
 remained safely aboard the 
Dutchman
,
while you monkeys flew off to perform circus tricks. Before you get all mad at
me, please remember that at the time, you still had not a single clue how we
could stop those two Maxolhx cruisers. So, I figured you were dead anyway. If
you can stop being selfish for a moment, think of the amusement value for me,
whether you succeeded or not. Big jerk,” he added under his breath.

The only thing I could do was shake my head.

 

Over the course of two hours, the planning went
from 
this-is-crazy
 to 
shmaybe-this-could-happen
, although we
needed a lot of hard work and some luck before we would be in the position to
try it. The plan relied on Skippy, of course, and also the STAR team. Knowing
Smythe would want to talk with me in the corridor after the meeting, I answered
his question before he could ask. “Smythe, while we review the details of the
operation, we will be taking the ship back to Avalon, to pick up the STAR team
and additional pilots.”

I couldn’t tell whether Smythe was pleased or
surprised that I was doing the sensible thing, without being prompted to by
him. He nodded once, and added “Sir, we also need to practice the boarding operation.
I know we can’t anticipate the type of ship we will be assaulting, however-”

“That is not a major problem,” Skippy announced.
“The Maxolhx construct most of their larger warships to a standard template, so
the interior of the habitable sections tend to be very similar. Joe, I suggest
we go back to the Nubrentia system.”

“Nubrentia?” After a moment of asking myself where
the hell that was, I remembered that system was the site of Admiral Tashallo’s
famous victory over a combined Bosphuraq and Thuranin force. “Why?”

“Because that is the most convenient place where
we can find large pieces of Bosphuraq warships. The birdbrains copied their
basic ship designs from their patrons, so a section of Bosphuraq ship would be
easiest for me to modify, to build a mockup for training to assault a Maxolhx
warship.”

“That would be useful, Sir,” Smythe looked at me.

“Ok, we’ll try it,” I agreed. “But we will need to
find a piece of debris small enough to take with us.”

“Joe,” Skippy warned, “the 
Dutchman
 has a limited capacity to carry other ships now. We no
longer have docking platforms.”

“I know that, and we’ll have to work with it. We
can’t risk conducting assault training at Nubrentia. If the STAR team is away
from the ship, we have to recover them before we can jump away if some other
ship comes sniffing around. We know the Jeraptha, and probably others, are
monitoring that system. We will find a chunk of 
ship

that is the right size, and bring it with us to Avalon. There, we can conduct
training without the danger of being interrupted by unwanted guests.”

 

 

The 
Commissioner

from Peru was enraged when she came to Hans Chotek’s office, in one corner of a
makeshift hut on Avalon. “You have worked with Bishop before,” Sofia Vizcarra
said quietly, although the way her fists were clenched spoke of her true
emotions. “What will you do?”

Hans Chotek avoided giving an immediate response
by lifting the lid off a tin of foil-wrapped chocolates, poking around with a finger,
selecting one, and offering the tin to Vizcarra. She shook her head, irritated,
glaring at him. That was, Chotek thought with a smile that did not show on his
face, improper behavior for a career diplomat. “What will I do?” He asked 
slowly
 as he popped the chocolate into his
mouth. They were speaking English because, though the four Commissioners all
spoke multiple languages, English was the only language all four of them had in
common. Chotek spoke passable Spanish, but in a Castilian manner that the
Peruvian Vizcarra found pretentious and stilted.

He chewed the chocolate slowly, savoring it. That
chocolate might be one of the last he ever enjoyed. If Avalon were truly the
site of humanity’s last refuge, and they were cut off from an Earth that soon
might not be capable of supporting life, then no more chocolates would be
coming. The supplies they had brought to Avalon included a wide variety of
plants, and a scattered selection of domesticated animals, but cacao trees were
not among the many items that were stuffed into the 
Flying Dutchman’s
 cargo bays.

He would miss chocolate. Hans did not particularly
have a sweet tooth, so he did not crave the candy. But it was a comfort and a
reminder of home, a reminder of his childhood.

He would miss chocolate.

“I do not see that there is anything we 
can
 do,” he finished his thought, and
contemplated another chocolate.

 

The 
Flying
Dutchman
 had jumped into orbit unexpectedly and overdue, although that
aspect of the ship’s return was not disturbing. No one on Avalon, certainly not
the four Commissioners, had expected the UN to make a quick decision about
whether to pursue that world as the beta site. The original excitement about
the pirate ship’s tardy return was not from alarm, it was caused by speculation
about what the UN might have decided. Was the ship packed with colonists, eager
to make Avalon their new home? Was the 
Dutchman

bringing 
a second
 wave of researchers and
supplies, to continue evaluating whether Avalon was a good choice for a secure
human refuge? Had the ship returned to evacuate everyone from the surface and
if so, was that because the 
Dutchman

had located a better candidate for the beta site?

The smart money was on the second option. For the
UN to declare Avalon the beta site so quickly, would be an unprecedented rapid
move by a bureaucratic body that typically dealt with decisions by endless
discussion. And as there was nothing in the initial survey data to indicate the
planet was hazardous to human life, it was unlikely the UN had decided to pull
the plug on the operation. Sending additional supplies and researchers would
give the UN more data to work with, and allow the bureaucrats to delay making a
decision. The last option, that the 
Dutchman

had located a better world to settle on, was highly unlikely. Really, there was
no reason that humans had to settle for only one refuge that was safe from
hostile aliens, but there was also no rush to identify other secure worlds. It
would be generations before humanity could begin building starships in
sufficient quantity for moving significant numbers of people off humanity’s 
homeworld
, and many generations before humans
had to worry about an alien threat.

Observers on Avalon did quickly notice what looked
like broken pieces of a starship attached to the 
Dutchman
. Excitement spread like wildfire, wondering where and 
why
 the pirate ship had acquired such an
odd burden. As Colonel Bishop was not immediately forthcoming about why he had
brought part of a broken alien ship to Avalon, rumors began flying. Especially
after the 
Dutchman
 detached from its burden, leaving the debris in a
stable orbit, geostationary in line of sight from the main encampment on
Avalon. Bishop refused to comment until his dropship landed, and he dropped the
bombshell news about why the Merry Band of Pirates had returned.

 

“He can’t 
do

this,” Commissioner Vizcarra said with a dramatic vehemence that made Hans
briefly wonder where the TV cameras were. Diplomats did not typically demonstrate
such strong emotions, unless they were doing it to have an effect on public
opinion. On the other hand, Hans considered, diplomats were not typically faced
with the prospect of being stranded forever on an alien planet, while Earth was
being targeted by a powerful war fleet. The emotions she was showing were very
likely not for dramatic effect. Hans suspected that was true, because he was
feeling those same emotions.

He had the advantage of having experienced the
prospect of hostile aliens coming to Earth more than once, so he was able to
keep the situation in perspective. “You mean, he 
should
 not do this, or he is not 
authorized
 to do this? Because, as he controls our only starship,
and our military guard force is loyal to him, he 
can
 do almost anything he wants. Sofia,” he held up a hand to
forestall her continued argument, speaking 
softly

because he could empathize with her anguish. “You are correct, I have served
with Bishop. I served with him for more than a year, in situations I thought
were equally as desperate as our current circumstances. Nothing you or I can
say will have any effect on him. He does not fear consequences when he returns
to Earth, because he does not expect 
to ever
return
.”

“How can you trust him?” Now her anger was
directed at Chotek, for having broken faith with his fellow Commissioners. “He
is reckless.”

“He is reckless, that is true,” Hans agreed. “He
is also smart, and clever, and he has what Napoleon observed is the most
important characteristic in a military officer: he is 
lucky
.”

“We must do something.
Colonel Chang might-”

“Appealing to Colonel Chang will be of no use to
you,” Hans distanced himself from her by saying ‘you’ rather than ‘us’. “Chang
is an outstanding officer. He is also subordinate to Bishop’s command, and he
agrees with Bishop’s plans. For that matter, so do I. Sofia, Bishop is no
dreamer, he is a realist. Yes, his plan to capture a Maxolhx warship is rash,
but no more so than other operations I thought were impossible, before the
Pirates accomplished the task. If he succeeds in acquiring a senior-species
warship, the 
Flying Dutchman
 can be
dedicated to bringing humans here from Paradise, where they, at least, will be
safe. If he fails to capture a Maxolhx ship and the 
Dutchman
 is still flightworthy, then he intends to bring people
from Paradise, until the 
Dutchman
 can
no longer fly.”

“Trying to capture a senior-species warship is a
foolish fantasy. The boy wants a shiny new toy,” 
Vizcarra
 practically spat out the words. “A dragon he can ride into
battle, and slay our enemies.”

“You don’t know him,” Chotek’s tone was a bit less
quiet and a bit less friendly. “Bishop is under no illusions that any ship he
might capture can protect Earth by itself. But maybe, with one of their ships,
he can break through the Maxolhx blockade of the Gateway wormhole, to warn
Earth about the battlegroup. And possibly to bring more people from Earth to
Avalon, as many as he can.”

The idea that the blockade might be broken gave
Vizcarra something to think about. “If Bishop is going to Earth, he should
take-”

“
If
 he
attempts to run the blockade, he will come here first, and we can discuss who
could or should, return to Earth with the Pirates.”

“Then, you refuse to talk with him?”

Chotek decided to indulge himself with another
chocolate. “I already 
have
 spoken
with Bishop.” He chewed the chocolate, savoring it. “And I happen to agree with
him.”

 

For me, the toughest part of returning to Avalon,
was saying goodbye to the good Doctor Friedlander. “I’m sorry,” I told our local
rocket scientist, after informing him that he would not be coming with us. “The
safest place for you is here on Avalon.”

“Colonel,” he looked away, his lips drawn into a
thin line. “I didn’t come out here to be 
safe
.
I came out here to make a difference.”

“You are making a difference.”

“A difference for my 
family
,” he turned toward me. There wasn’t fire in his eyes, there
was just a sad weariness. I knew that feeling. “The UN said that if we set up a
beta site, the families of the survey teams will have priority.”

“Oh.” I knew that but hadn’t thought much about
it. That secret policy applied only to civilian members of the survey team, not
the military. My family would not have priority if we had to evacuate people
off our homeworld. “You figured that, if Earth is attacked, your family could
be safe out here?”

“As an insurance policy,” he nodded. “I’ve seen
what’s out here. No offense, but we’ve been lucky so far.”

“I hear you. Doctor, I’m sorry about this.”

“Don’t be 
sorry
,”
the fire shown in his eyes again. 

“Yeah, I know. Fix the problem.”

A sheepish grin flashed across his face. “I’m an
engineer. Fixing problems is how I think.”

“I can promise you that if we are able to run the
blockade and reach Earth, I will do everything I can to bring your wife and
daughters away with us.”

“My daughters have families also.”

“I know.” That was the problem. Everyone we took
to the beta site had loved ones, and those loved one had loved ones. No matter
what happened, 
someone
 would have to
be left behind. Unless we pulled everyone off the surface, which was
impossible.

“I appreciate the offer, but if you are able to
run the blockade, please bring me with you.”

“To persuade your family to come with us?”

“That, or,” he looked away again. “To be with
them, if that is the end for humanity.”

“I understand,” I said, and that was the truth. “I’ll
do what I can.”

“Is there anything I can do?” he asked hopefully.

Looking around at the Earth crops growing in neat
lines, in fields hacked out of the giant ferns, I pondered the idea of running
away from our homeworld, in ships stuffed full of desperate, frightened people.
We could jam people into the 
Dutchman
,
plus take the 
Qishan
 and 
Dagger
 attached somehow to the creaky
old 
Dutchman
. Between those three
ships, maybe we could squeeze in six thousand people, because we had to leave
plenty of room for supplies. When we arrived at Avalon, all those people would
need places to live, and food to eat. “Do what you can to get this world set up
for refugees.”

“At this point,” he looked over at the fields
where test crops were growing. Some of the plants looked healthy and some did
not. “The important work is being done by the biologists.”

“Think of it as cross-disciplinary training.”

He shrugged. “It’s best for me to keep busy
anyway.” He stuck out a hand, and I shook it. “Good luck, Colonel. Our prayers
will be with you.”

 

 

"I'm going to miss that place," Katie
Frey said as she pressed her forehead to the porthole, one of the few places
aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
 where the
crew could see outside, without using cameras and displays. Portholes, even
ones constructed of exotic composite material like the one she was using to
look down at Avalon, were weak spots in the ship’s structure and therefore the
star carrier’s designers had included 
as

few of them as they thought necessary.

“You might see it again,” Giraud waited patiently
for the Canadian soldier’s eyes to drink in her fill of the view.

“I hope not,” she replied without turning her
head.

“Why not?”

“Because,” she pushed herself away from the view.
“If I ever come back here, that likely means we can’t get to Earth, our
homeworld is about to be destroyed, and the only reason we’re here is to dump
people from Paradise in the hope we can build some semblance of civilization
out of nothing.”

“They could help us,” Giraud observed.

“Who?”

“The people from Paradise. They are used to
deprivation, to being cut off from Earth, to fearing that all other humans in
the galaxy are dead or slaves of the Kristang. To the people down there we
brought from Earth, being trapped on an alien planet and 
having
 to survive with the resources they
brought from home, is a shock. People on Paradise have already experienced
that, and thrived. For them, coming here will just be a change of scenery,” he
announced with a characteristic shrug.

“I wish I had your optimism, Sir.”

“Optimism would be hoping we can save our
homeworld.”

“I’m not allowing myself to get my hopes up about
that,” she admitted.

“No?” He raised an eyebrow. “Then why do you work
so hard, training to capture a warship from the Maxolhx, if you do not think we
can save Earth? That is also an unlikely dream.”

“Because,” she glanced back at the green and blue
world below the 
Dutchman
. “We have to
try. And if by some miracle this op works as planned, we can use that ship for
payback.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER 
TWENTY
SIX

 

It was my day to serve in the galley, along with
Adams and Reed. With such a small crew, we served a simple breakfast,
sandwiches for lunch, and concentrated on preparing a nice dinner. Reed
suggested shrimp and grits, partly because our supplies included plenty of
shrimp, and not many people were eating grits with their breakfast. With me
being from Maine, you might think I did not like grits, but you would be wrong about
that. You might also think that grits are something I first ate in Basic
Training, and again you would be wrong. My uncle Edgar lives in Florida during
the winters, and I visited him there enough to develop a taste for grits. Real
grits, not that instant stuff that tastes like wallpaper paste.

Anyway, Reed’s recipe for shrimp and grits met the
approval of Adams, so we went with that. The hydroponics garden was producing a
nice batch of strawberries, so I suggested that I make a strawberry roll for
dessert. Crew morale was understandably low, and I was hoping a special treat
would pick up everyone’s spirits. A special dinner would also be a nice way to
welcome aboard the people we had recently and rudely pulled off the surface of
Avalon.

The truth was, I needed to make a treat for the
crew, because that would be a 
couple

hours when I didn’t have to think about impending doom that I couldn’t do
anything about.

“What,” Reed asked, “is a strawberry roll?”

“You never had one?” That surprised me.

“Sir,” she gave me the side-eye. “Is this like
that bread in a can thing?”

Before we left Earth, Simms had loaded aboard a
box of B&M brown bread in a can. Both plain and the kind with raisins,
which is my favorite. “No, it is not like bread in a can.” At first, I set out
sliced brown bread for breakfast, when people could toast it and slather it
with butter. Trust me, it is wonderful. Some people liked it, so I pushed my
luck and went too far. One day for lunch, I served franks and beans with brown
bread. That was a Saturday night tradition when I was growing up in New England,
but apparently a bit too regional for our international crew. Those who didn’t
like brown bread for breakfast were not thrilled to see a disc of bread on
their plate, and ‘beanie-weenies’ 
was
 not
a popular meal with anyone. I had plenty of leftovers for my lunches that week.

“A strawberry roll is,” I paused. How do I explain
it? “You ever had a jelly roll?”

“Ooh,” Adams made a face. “My grandmother always
made a jelly roll for church suppers. I didn’t like that even when I was a
kid.”

“It’s not like that,” I hurried to say before
Adams got turned off to the whole idea. “The cake part is 
similar,

you bake it thin. But instead of jelly, you put freshly-whipped cream on, with
sliced strawberries. Then you roll it up, carefully. When it’s in a roll, you
put more cream on the outside, and fresh strawberries on top. Because of the
cream, you have to keep it in the fridge until just before you serve it.”

“Fresh cream, Sir?”
Reed was skeptical

“Yes, Fireball. Not all cream comes from a spray
can. You make it by whipping fresh cream, that’s why it is called ‘whipped
cream’.”

“Sounds like a lot of work,” Adams observed. “Have
you ever actually made one of these?”

“Sure,” I did not exactly lie. “I’ve helped my
mother make them plenty of times.” Technically, my part of ‘helping’ was to
slice the strawberries, and whip the cream, but how hard could it be? “Ok, you
two make the shrimp and grits, I will handle the strawberry roll.”

“Should we have a backup dessert?” Adams suggested
gently.

“No, we do not need a ‘backup dessert’. Just
watch, you will soon be eating your words.”

“I hope,” she said, “that I will be eating this
strawberry thing.”

“The issue is settled,” I declared. “What are we
offering for 
midrats
?” Those were rations
for people eating between midnight and 0400 ship time. “People are getting sick
of dinner leftovers.”

Reed asked distractedly, already focused on making
preparations for her own cooking assignment “What do you suggest, Sir?”

“How about Fluffernutters?”

“Fluff?” Adams stuck her tongue out, and shared a
disgusted look with Reed. “I don’t think the crew like that, Sir.”

I sniffed. “That’s because this crew 
are
 heathen savages, Adams. It is my duty to
steer them onto the path of righteousness.”

Now Reed really gave me the side-eye. “The path of
righteousness is paved with 
Fluff
?”

“The Lord works in mysterious ways, Reed.”

She giggled. “That path must be really 
sticky
.”

I gave her my best fake scowl. “Heathen savages,
Reed, that includes you.”

 

We did set out
bread, peanut butter and Fluff for midrats, along with leftover shrimp and
grits, which, by the way, was so good I asked Reed for the recipe.

Despite the teasing I got, someone did eat a Fluffernutter that night.

Ok, the person who ate the Fluffernutter was me
getting up to have a late-night snack. Sadly, my crew 
are
 filthy monkeys who cannot appreciate fine cuisine.

Also, the answer to ‘how hard could it 
be make
 a strawberry roll’ 
was:

harder than I thought. I discarded four cakes that were too hard, too soft, or
broke when I tried to roll them up. But when I got the technique perfected,
they were excellent.

I noticed that Adams had 
two
 slices of 
strawberry

roll.

 

 

 
“This is
going to be very tricky, Joe,” Skippy warned me as his avatar appeared on my
desk.

I froze, holding the ball I had been throwing in
my hand. “Yeah, you said the same thing a week ago, and yesterday, and this
morning. Is this concern something special you haven’t told me about, or just
you 
getting
 nervous?”

“I do not get 
nervous
,
Joe, for I am incomparably awesome.”

“So, if this is nothing we haven’t already
discussed over and over, why are you telling me about it again? We launch the
op in three hours, this is a 
hell
 of a
time to get cold feet.”

“There is nothing we haven’t already discussed,
Joe. However, I have learned that it is important to set low expectations. That
way, if a miracle happens and we are successful, I look like a genius. If
everything goes to shit, I can say I told you so, and blame the whole thing on
you.”

“Uh huh. Did you learn this from one of those
psychology books you read, to learn about dealing with monkeys?”

“Yes! Thank you for suggesting I study that
empathy crap. That was worthless, but it did make me curious about the best way
I could manipulate you, to get what I want.”

“Did it work?”

“Not as far as you know, and that’s the whole
point,” he answered smugly.

Stuffing the ball back in a drawer, I cradled my
head in my hands and slowly counted to five. “Is that all? Because if you don’t
have anything to new to add, we are proceeding with the op as scheduled.”

“Nothing new. However, I have already warned you
this a low-percentage play, and you are determined to proceed anyway.”

“Ayuh, we are. I know the first time will be a
test.”

“Seriously, Joe, I can’t predict what will happen.
There are too many variables. No one has done this before. The network has
elaborate safety protocols to 
prevent

this from happening. I do not know how many times we will be able to try this
craziness, before the network updates its security and locks me out.”

“Understood, Skippy. I would have liked to run a
test before we do this for real, but I know we can’t waste a shot on a dry run.
You do your best, that is all I can ask.”

“Really? Oh,” he snorted. “This is gonna be easy,
then.”

“Of course, because you 
are
 incomparably magnificent, I expect nothing but mind-boggling
awesomeness.”

“
What
?”
he screeched. “Damn it, did I screw myself?”

 

The thing that had Skippy nervous, whether he
admitted it or not, was the same thing that had butterflies dancing in my
stomach. Based on the dark circles under the eyes of Desai, Smythe, Giraud,
Reed, Adams and pretty much everyone else aboard the ship, we were all worried
about what might go wrong with an operation that was ambitious to the point of
being foolhardy. If we had a better option, we would have tried something else.

I had very much wanted to try our bagel-slicer trick
on the smashed piece of Bosphuraq warship we brought with us, but each test
would increase the odds of the network locking Skippy out. Skippy’s bots had
modified the 
Bosphuraq
 hulk to be as
close as possible to a target ship. We used the hulk to practice an assault
approach, boarding maneuver, and moving throughout the target ship to eliminate
opposition. We could not predict which type of Maxolhx ships we would be
boarding, but the STAR teams knew how to approach so they avoided
proximity-defense systems, how to breach the hull without getting themselves
fried by a live power conduit, and how to move inside a Maxolhx warship. The
pilots, STARs and equipment were trained up as best we could get them, so we
proceeded to the target area. The hulk was dumped, to lighten the 
Dutchman
 for emergency maneuvers.
Although Skippy warned if the 
Dutchman

ever had a need to fly like a swallow, we were in such trouble that no amount
of fancy twisting in space would save us.

Our target area was a wormhole in Thuranin territory,
that was near a Kristang planet and did not get a lot of traffic. Skippy had
data from the little green pinheads that indicated the wormhole was actually
used by the Maxolhx more frequently than the Thuranin, because it provided a
short-cut between zones the Maxolhx cared about. The reason the pinheads had
extensive data on the travels of their patrons, was from the senior species
sending a message that their lowly clients should get out of the way when a
Maxolhx ship was transiting the area. The warnings were sort of a Notice 
To
 Airmen, except that these warnings were enforced with
heavy weapons.

The wormhole we choose had the advantage that when
Maxolhx ships used it, they were usually alone. The area was considered safe,
being well inside Thuranin borders and far from any wormhole that linked to the

Rindhalu
 coalition. Feeling safe, both
because of the location and because of their supreme arrogance, the rotten
kitties routinely sent cruisers and larger ships without escort vessels,
cycling back to their home bases for crew rotation and maintenance.

The disadvantage of the chosen wormhole was that
it saw only infrequent traffic, and we couldn’t wait forever for the right type
of ships to fly through. So, we used one of Skippy’s favorite tricks to stack
the deck. We flew over to a nearby wormhole that saw a heavier traffic flow,
and I hung out in our 
stealthed
 Panther
dropship with Skippy and four pilots. The Panther just sat motionless in space,
near a wormhole emergence point. Skippy had pinged a Thuranin data relay
station and learned that the Thuranin were sending a destroyer squadron
through. Because the squadron was in a hurry to confront their rivals the
Bosphuraq, they were taking the fastest route, and Skippy was able to predict
which emergence point they were most likely to use.

Sure enough, after us being in the Panther less
than six hours, a destroyer squadron jumped in, waiting for the Elder wormhole
to shift to that position, on the figure-eight track it had followed for
thousands of years. “Everything is ready, Joe,” Skippy assured me in a voice
that was bubbling with enthusiasm. “Hee hee, I just 
love
 being an asshole.”

“Yeah, well, punish someone else with your
assholeness this time, please.”

“You got it. Ok, three, two, one, 
showtime
!” He shouted.

On the cockpit display, we watched the event
horizon of the wormhole emerge into our spacetime. It began as a pinprick, then
rapidly grew to a size far greater than the width of the largest starship in
existence. As always, the event horizon shimmered and fluctuated, then steadied
into a stable configuration. We all held our breath as the lead destroyer
maneuvered to line itself up into a precise route for transit, that minimized
the risk it would contact the edge of the event horizon’s ring. Lined up, it
slowly gathered speed, approaching the incredible ancient wormhole that not
even Skippy fully understood. 
Everything

was normal.

Then, Skippy played his trick. The event horizon
began to fluctuate, as if it had never achieved stability. The lead destroyer
altered course, yawing to the right and frantically firing thrusters, but it
was too late. The wormhole spasmed, sending a roiling column of white-hot
twisted spacetime outward, engulfing the lone destroyer. The event horizon then
collapsed to a small dot, then grew to full size again, before abruptly winking
out.

“Mission accomplished, Joe!” Skippy shouted
triumphantly. “That pinhead destroyer is 
gone
.”

“I feel just terrible about that, Skippy,” I shook
my head, not taking my eyes away from the cockpit displays. It was possible the

violent
 radiation of the outburst had
overwhelmed the Panther’s stealth field, allowing the other three destroyers to
detect us. There was no need for me to worry. The instruments indicated the
radiation had only twelve percent of the power needed to compromise our
stealth, and the three destroyers had already turned and burned, heading away
to jump distance as quickly as they could.

“Hee hee,” he laughed. “I searched for a Hallmark
card that says something like ‘Sorry we blew up your starship’, but sadly, they
don’t have one.”

“Well, there’s a business opportunity for you,
Skippy.”

“
Oooh
,”
he gasped. “That is a 
great
 idea. I
could-”

“No, that is a terrible idea. I was joking.”

“You were joking, but it is a 
genius
 idea, Joe. A line of ‘Sorry Not Sorry’ cards is something
the market truly needs. Like ‘Sorry that you are a dipshit’ or “Sorry that’-”

“Can you wait until we get back to Earth? Maybe we
send a fruit basket, along with our condolences?”

“Sure, Joe,” he chuckled. “I’ll get right on
that.”

We waited until the three destroyers jumped, then
flew out to jump distance and signaled the 
Dutchman

to pick us up. The 
Thuranin
 would warn
their patrons about the dangerous behavior of that wormhole, which hopefully
would divert some traffic to the wormhole we wanted them to use. Damn it,
nothing the Merry Band of Pirates ever did was simple or easy.

“That was outstanding, Skippy,” I offered his
avatar a high-five, and he slapped me as best his hologram could.

“Thank you, Joe, but we may have a problem,” he
answered in a low voice. “I don’t know how many more times I can pull that
exploding-wormhole trick, before the network locks me out from doing that. So
far, I have been able to do it, by triggering the wormhole to perform sort of
an unscheduled purge cycle. A purge like that expels particles that have become
caught in the wormhole’s matrix over time, and normally a purge occurs in a
higher level of spacetime. What I have been doing is screwing with the
wormhole’s internal sensor readings, so it thinks there is a hazardous build-up
of particles in its matrix. Eventually, the network will block me from doing
that again, because running a purge in this layer of spacetime can cause stress
on the matrix.”

“Shit. Ok, I’ll keep that in mind. Is there any
way you can predict how many more purges you can run?”

“Unfortunately, no. The network has been checking
its sensors, and is beginning to question whether the data about a hazardous
build-up is accurate. Once it catches onto the truth, it will reset the sensors
and I will be blocked from that particular trick.”

 

 

 
“Smythe reports
dropships are ready. Assault teams are in position and awaiting the ‘Go’
order,” Desai reported from the CIC.

I flashed a thumbs up from the command chair.
“Tell Smythe I wish his team ‘good hunting’.” More likely, the STAR team would
wait for nothing, until the point when they became combat-ineffective and we
needed to pull them back inside the 
Dutchman

for downtime to recover. We had the entire STAR team sealed up in armored
suits, sitting in dropships with the rear ramps open, in docking bays that had
the big doors open to the hard vacuum of interstellar space. The dropships had
their engines warmed up, and docking clamps had their safeties removed. When
the 
Dutchman
 jumped into position,
the STARs needed to move at maximum speed, with the dropships burning heavy
gees to intercept and latch onto the target ship, before it could react and
blow them to dust. The whole operation would require precise timing,
unhesitating speed, and most importantly, snap decision making. We had
practiced the assault operation using the Bosphuraq warship hulk, until Smythe,
Desai, Reed and I were satisfied we had prepared as best we could, without
having access to an actual Maxolhx ship.

Even elite troops could only sit and wait sealed
up in suits for a limited time, before they began to lose the razor-sharp focus
that was needed. The dropship pilots, wearing 
flightsuits

but having their helmet visors open behind the pressure door of the cockpits, also
would lose focus after a while. Because we had so few people aboard the ship,
we had to commit the entire STAR team to the boarding operation. Four dropships
would lead the assault, with two dropships in reserve to exploit opportunities
as they developed, or to reinforce, if necessary, extract a team if they got
into trouble. Skippy was making no assurances about the state of defenses
aboard the Maxolhx ship, so we had to be ready for the worst.

My breakfast that morning had been plain oatmeal
and a half cup of tea. I was so keyed-up and anxious that caffeine wasn’t
needed, and my stomach was already doing backflips. “Skippy, what’s your
assessment? Are we as ready as we can be?”

“I can’t think of anything else we could do to
prepare,” He announced with confidence.

“Thank you.”

“Of course, if there is something I forgot, then
by definition I don’t know about it,” he mused. I heard the unspoken ‘duh’ in
his tone. “Also, you have to consider that this operation is a troop of
screeching monkeys attempting to capture a senior-species warship. So I am
seriously grading on a curve here.”

Gritting my teeth, I shook a fist at the speaker
in the ceiling. “Once again, your words fill me with confidence.”

“Really?” He was puzzled. “Maybe you didn’t hear
what I said., dumdum. I figure the odds of us succeeding at this lunatic scheme
is-”

“Skippy,” Nagatha blessedly interrupted him. “The
crew 
do
 not need to know the odds you
calculated.

“Well,
 I

would want to know,” he grumbled.

“They do 
not

wish to know, and you are guessing anyway, dear,” she chided him.

“Skippy,” I spoke before he could go on a rant.
“What are the odds of us stopping a battlegroup, if we only have the old 
Dutchman
 to work with?”

“Well, zero,” he admitted. “Ok, the 
ship
 is in position, and I have established a
handshake with the wormhole network. Estimate initial connection will be
established in seventeen minutes, thirty-four seconds. That time has a plus or
minus of forty-eight seconds.”

“Sir?” Desai called from the CIC. “This still
seems sketchy to me. If this is so easy, why haven’t we used this capability
before?”

“
Because
,”
an irritated Skippy answered. “I didn’t know until recently that the network
had this capability. Technically, it is not an 
ability
, it is how the network functions. It’s not something that
can be switched on or off, so I am not asking or instructing it to do anything.

Ugh
,” he sighed. “Do I need to give
you monkeys a refresher course on wormhole operations?”

“Yes, please,” I said before Desai could respond.
None of us needed to hear him babble on about stuff our poor monkey brains
could not possibly understand, but I thought hearing his voice would distract
me from worrying about the potential disaster we were hopefully soon going to
jump into.

“
Fine
,”
he was thoroughly disgusted. “I’ll dumb this down as much as I can stand. As
you should already know, Elder wormholes have two endpoints, the ends of this
particular wormhole are separated by an average of one hundred 
seventy-eight
 lightyears. 
To avoid damaging the underlying fabric of local
spacetime
, the endpoints hop around in a figure-eight pattern. The
pattern on the other end spans one point two lightyears, the pattern on this
end covers a distance of point seven lightyears, for reasons that 
I am
 not going to bother explaining to you.
When-”

“We 
know

all this,” Desai didn’t appreciate being talked down to. “We have been
transitioning through Elder wormholes for years. What I want is some 
assurance
 that this magical new feature, that
you just recently discovered, will work the way you told us. Because you have
never done this before. I also want to know, if this feature is something
wormholes have always done, why you didn’t know about it 
before
.”

“I have never, 
ugh
.”
He verbally threw up his hands. Desai asked good questions and she was 
tough,
 Skippy couldn’t weasel out of answering her. “Yes,
the wormhole network always does this, and always has. I did not know because,
until recently, I didn’t know to ask the network if it could do that. The
stupid thing doesn’t volunteer information, I have to ask it a specific
question.”

What Skippy was referring to 
was

a minor incident, that happened when he requested a super-duty wormhole to
reopen a connection to a dormant wormhole in the Sculptor dwarf galaxy. He
thought it was a minor incident, until he mentioned it to me in a casual
conversation while we were waiting for the Three Stooges to approve allowing
ground teams to drop onto Avalon.

When the network agreed to attempt establishing a
connection to Sculptor, 
it
 informed Skippy that first
it would need to establish a sort of 
microwormhole

to investigate the condition of the other end. The network conducted that recon
to determine whether the other end of the wormhole had drifted close to a star,
or was in a dense asteroid field. If even one dangerous rock was in front of
where the wormhole was to emerge, the network would cancel opening the
full-size event horizon, and shift to an alternate endpoint.

At the time, Skippy had mentioned that network
feature as a curious but unimportant aspect of reopening a wormhole to a
distant galaxy, but then I asked him if wormholes always investigated the space
around both endpoints before allowing the event horizons to emerge. To his astonishment,
the answer was yes, a fact that got him very embarrassed. The network used
sensors to scan the area around both endpoints, and Skippy could tap into that
data feed. Suddenly, we could see what was on the other end of a wormhole, even
before the wormhole emerged fully into local spacetime.

That nugget of information opened up a whole world
of possibilities for us, and it was how we could make the bagel-slicer idea
work. With the recon feature, we could know what was on the other side of a
wormhole, even before it opened. If the wormhole sensors told us that a single
Maxolhx warship was waiting on the other side, then Skippy would instruct the
network to connect that endpoint to the endpoint on our end where we had set a
trap. If there were multiple Maxolhx warships, or ships of another species, or
nothing, Skippy would let the network emerge on our end at another point. To
set our trap, we had selected an emergence point the network had cycled through
recently, and would not open there again for months.

What if a group of ships jumped in near the other
end of the wormhole 
after
 it opened,
while it was connected to our trap? That was easy; Skippy would simply tell the
network to shut the wormhole down early. Those other ships might think that was
odd, but it was not so unusual that they would avoid using the wormhole.

So, suddenly, we had an ability to select which
ships would go through the wormhole, and where they would emerge. The time
between us receiving sensor data, and 
emergence

of the event horizon, was only eleven seconds. We had to rely on Skippy and
Nagatha to decide whether to spring our trap, or let the wormhole follow its
pre-programmed circuit. We still had no ability to make Maxolhx ships use that
wormhole, or predict when they would be there, or whether they came singly or
in groups. That was why we had to cycle the assault teams off and on, while we
waited. Hopefully, we would not have to wait too long.

 

Anyway, we waited three days before the first ship
approached the other end of the wormhole. Fortunately, the assault team was
fresh at that time, having sealed up their suits and announced they were ready less
than forty minutes before. Unfortunately, the ship on the other side was just a
Thuranin star carrier that was hauling five ships, so we let it go. Over the
next two days there were seven other times when ships knocked on the other side
of the wormhole. Skippy let the wormhole do its thing without interfering,
because none of those ships were candidates for us to use. One time, we did
detect the presence of Maxolhx ships, but that 
was
ship
s
, as in more than
one.
  
A formation of three, to be
precise. We let them go on their merry way. I was beginning to get discouraged
when the next day, 
a single
 Maxolhx
cruiser approached the wormhole. It was a prime candidate except for the
timing, because the assault teams were on a downtime cycle right then.
Naturally, it worked that way, because the Universe loved screwing with me.
That day was the first time I saw Jeremy Smythe lose his temper. Anger and
frustration broke through his usual stiff-upper-lip British reserve, and he
went to the gym to beat the shit out of a punching bag. I happened to be in the
gym at that time, and I pretended I didn’t hear as he cursed and took out his
rage on the bag.

It was good for me to know someone else was pissed
off at the Universe.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER 
TWENTY
SEVEN

 

Finally, three days after that extremely
frustrating incident, we found a perfect target while the assault team was
ready.

“Bingo, Joe!” Skippy shouted with glee. “Another
Maxolhx cruiser is knocking on the door, and it’s alone. Shall I tell it nobody
is home?”

“Please don’t do that, Oh Most Magnificent One,” I
clenched one fist to get a handle on my anxiety, while using the other hand to
cross my fingers for good luck. “Nagatha, you agree?”

“Oh, yes, Colonel Bishop” she answered. “This is a
prime opportunity. I can’t wait to see you monkeys in action again, this is
truly thrilling.”

“Ok, Skippy, make it so.”

“Make it 
so
?
Joe, you are nowhere close to being smart like Captain Picard.”

“Uh, how about I just say ‘Engage’?”

“Ha! Captain Janeway was smarter 
and
 way better looking than you. But
I’ll throw you a bone and do it anyway. Event horizon emerging at our trap in
three, two, one, 
showtime
!”

On the bridge display, I saw the familiar sight of
an event horizon emerging into our local spacetime. It flickered, then
stabilized. “Smythe, it looks like we’re doing this. Go on Skippy’s signal,
don’t wait for me to confirm.” The situation would likely be too chaotic for my
slow monkey brain to keep up with events.

“Acknowledged,” Smythe replied with curt
efficiency.

“Ok, I am communicating with the wormhole
network,” Skippy announced with the smug tone he used when he did something
particularly awesome. “It will be another two minutes before I have control of
the wormhole to activate the bagel slicer. Plenty of time, because the target
ship is still maneuvering slowly, lining up its approach.”

“
Please

do not crush it into dust,” I requested.

“Hey, give me a break. This is my first time. You
try it and see how well 
you
 do, huh?
Never fear, Joe, I know how to do this and- Uh oh. Um, 
oopsy
?” Skippy gulped like a small boy who just burned down the
house by setting off fireworks in the living room.

“
Oopsy
?
Damn it, Skippy! What the hell did you do wrong this time?”

“I don’t know yet, Joe! All I know is that somehow,
that ship detected us from the far side of the wormhole. How the hell- Joe, I
have no freakin’ idea how that ship could know we are here. Damn it! Maybe the
Maxolhx have capabilities I don’t know about.”

“Shit! 
It’s

getting 
away?
 Oh, this is bad.” My mind raced through
our options. The best thing to do would be going through the wormhole, chasing
down that ship and blowing it to hell, before it could escape and warn their
entire society that this wormhole was a trap. Not only would we lose the
ability to use this wormhole as a bagel slicer, but the Maxolhx would also use
precautions before transiting any wormhole. Yes, the best possible action was
for us to destroy that ship. Unfortunately, we couldn’t do that, which is why
we were using a wormhole as a bagel slicer. Our only realistic option was to
jump the 
Dutchman
 away, after we flew
to a safe distance from the event horizon. “Can we-”

“No, Joe, it is 
not
 running away! It is coming through the wormhole at maximum
thrust, coming toward us! It will be here before the 
Dutchman
 can get out to a safe jump distance!”

“Shit!” I fought down a wave of panic. Elder
wormholes projected a damping field around their event horizons, to avoid ships
creating jump wormholes that would interfere with their operation. “Pilot! Take
us out to jump distance! Desai, get our-”

“Too late, Sir,” Desai called from the CIC. “That
ship is coming 
through,
 
its
 weapons are hot! As soon as their sensors reset, we are in big
trouble. We should- no! It has launched missiles from the other side of the
wormhole!”

Helplessly, I watched the main display. A volley
of five, six, no, 
seven
 missiles came
through first, their booster drive plumes trailing fiery streaks of
incandescent particles behind them. As they cleared the event horizon on our
side, the missiles spread out, seeking a target. The sensors of those missiles
were blind from passage through the wormhole, but that wouldn’t last long. Each
missile had a stealth field, which could not be engaged until the effects of
spatial distortion wore off, and with their booster engines firing a stealth
field would be useless. If we authorized our point-defense cannons to engage
the missiles, they would 
pinpoint
 our
location much sooner, but we had to kill them before they turned their boosters
off and wrapped themselves in stealth fields.

The Merry Band of Pirates is a kick-ass troop of
monkeys, even our current skeleton crew. Without me having to issue an order,
Desai authorized the PDS cannons to engage on full-auto mode. Even from my
command chair on the bridge, deep inside the

Dutchman’s
 forward hull, I could hear and feel the maser cannons chattering
as they cycled in rapid-fire mode. Skippy had enhanced the sensors, software
and processing speed of the PDS computers, but the upgrades really were not
needed. With the booster drive plumes of the target missiles lighting them up
like flares, our point-defense cannons were knocking missiles out of the sky
almost faster than I could keep track. Within seconds, there were only two
missiles left, and-

“Joe you 
idiot
!”
Skippy shouted. “Cease fire, cease fi- Ah, it’s too late,” he groaned as the
last missile was exploded by our cannons. “Stupid monkeys! The 
Maxolhx
 
wanted

us to do that, they’re conducting recon by fire and you fell for that trick,
you idiot. When we shot back, their missiles relayed their targeting data back
through the wormhole, now that ship knows 
exactly

where we are! I could have- Oh shit, here it comes!”

On the main display, I saw the nose of the enemy
ship emerge from the chaotic backscatter of the event horizon. I did not see
the ship’s bow in profile, I saw it straight-on. Skippy was right, it was
headed straight for us. As more of the ship raced through the wormhole, I had a
brief impression of a flare of light, then the 
Dutchman
 rocked as we were struck by a directed-energy weapon or
particle beam.

I could not allow the ship to be captured, or even
scanned at close-range. With my last remaining moment of life, I flipped up the
cover over the self-destruct button and –

And the 
Maxolhx

ship exploded. There was a blinding flash of light before the main display
damped down the image. The wormhole’s event horizon winked out, and suddenly
the 
Dutchman
 was alone.

Then we got hit by the blast wave.

My teeth rattled as the ship rocked, yawing around
as the pilots fired thrusters, trying to point the ship’s nose toward the wave
of high-energy particles and debris. We would take hits on the nose, but that
part of the ship had the thickest armor of the forward hull, and the energy
shields there overlapped so they were extra strong. There was nothing in the
star carrier’s nose that we couldn’t replace or live without, and the pilots were
following 
well-practiced
 procedures to
minimize damage.

The blast wave washed over us quickly, even the
biggest remaining chunks were traveling a decent percentage of lightspeed. The
main bridge display flickered, changing to a schematic of the ship. “Colonel
Bishop,” Nagatha reported. “The ship has sustained multiple debris strikes.
None of the damage appears to be critical. Forward sensors are offline, I am
sending bots to survey the damage. 
I strongly
recommend we do not jump or maneuver, until I have more complete data.”

“Got it, will do. What was our radiation
exposure?”

“Sections of the forward hull are 
hot,
 they were bombarded by high-energy photons. That
radiation has a brief half-life, the forward hull should be safe within sixteen
hours. There is no need for humans to enter that part of the ship.”

She was right, the star carrier’s nose was packed
with equipment, there were no living quarters up there. “Understood. 
Pilots,
 stand down but remain alert. Nagatha, why isn’t
Skippy helping to survey the damage?”

“He is presently very busy, talking with the
wormhole network about the incident.”

Damn, I thought. If Skippy was too busy to speak
with a monkey, the network must be overwhelming even his incredible processors.
“Nagatha, what happened? Why did that ship explode? Where did the wormhole go?”

“You will have to ask Skippy,” she replied. Even
she was distracted. “I truly do not know. It all happened very 
fast,
 my focus was on feeding guidance data to the
point-defense system.”

“Hey, Joe,” Skippy spoke. He sounded tired, which
shouldn’t be possible.

“What just happened?” I demanded.

“Joe, you just witnessed pure, unadulterated, one
hundred percent Grade-A 
awesomeness
,
that’s what.” His energy level picked up as he bragged about himself.

“Yeah, I know that,” I sputtered. The reason I
said that was both because I had no idea how we were still alive, and because
he was going to tell me he was awesome no matter what he did. “What 
happened
?”

“Joe, what happened was that those rotten kitties
just learned a valuable lesson.”

“Like what?”

He changed his voice, to sound like John Wayne.
“Never bring a starship to a wormhole fight.”

“Ha! I, 
ha
!”
I began laughing, and couldn’t stop. It was hysterical laughter. It was the
laughter of relief and surprise at being alive. The pilots and people in the
CIC joined me, all of us celebrating the fact that we weren’t dead. When I was
able to talk again, I wiped my eyes with the back of one sleeve. “Skippy, you
truly are awesome beyond the ability of any 
meatsack

to comprehend. Please forgive us for not being able 
to truly appreciate the full majesty of your magnificence
.”

“Hmmph,” he sniffed. “That praise is inadequate,
but I suppose it will have to do.”

“I thank you for accepting my humble praise. What
did you do?”

“It was easy, Joe. Although, if you want the
truth,” he paused, leaving me hanging.

“I do want the truth.”

“You can’t 
handle

the truth!” He shouted in his best Jack Nicolson impression. “Oh man,” he
chuckled. “I’ve been waiting for an opportunity to do that. Ok, here’s the
deal. What I did was so clever of me, it approaches monkey-brain level thinking.”

Holy shit, I thought. Did he just compliment
humanity? Wisely, I kept my mouth shut and let him talk.

“The network was still responding to my request
for control, and it wasn’t going to grant me access until it was too late. So,
I knew the wormhole was the only possible weapon we had available, that could
possibly have a chance to stop that ship. The question was, how to get the
wormhole to crush that ship? So, I thought; I need to make the wormhole see
that ship as a threat to itself.”

“How can a starship be dangerous to a wormhole?”
That puzzled me. “You said even a nuke could not damage an Elder wormhole.”

“You are correct that usually, no starship
existing today should be able to threaten an Elder wormhole. However, I know
something the Maxolhx don’t. I know how a starship recently
 broke
 a wormhole. The 
Flying
Dutchman
 ship did that. My clever idea was to fool the wormhole’s sensors
into thinking that Maxolhx ship was trying to jump through it, 
like
 we did. The network, 
of
 course, updated its protocols after we
jumped through a wormhole, so doing that is impossible. But the network doesn’t
know that, I mean, it thought that was impossible the first time. I fooled the
network into thinking that ship had somehow bypassed the protocols, so the wormhole
smashed that ship to bits to protect itself. It reached out and crushed it, by
compressing local spacetime around it. Then the ship exploded. Pretty smart,
huh?”

“Holy shit, Skippy, that was pretty damned clever.
I don’t know if I would ever have thought of doing that.”

“Really, Joe?”

“For 
realz
,
Skippy.”

“Wow. Now that is worthwhile praise. Although
praising me for thinking like a 
monkey

is kind of a mixed blessing, you know?”

“I get that. Ok, so, what went wrong?”

“Why do you think anything went wrong?” He asked,
his voice squeaky. “Certainly 
I
 did not

do 
anything wrong.”

“Then why does your voice sound like a
four-year-old girl?”

“Damn it,” he grunted. “Ok, so maybe it is
possible that I forgot something. This is, heh heh, kind of funny, when you
think about it.”

“What the hell did you do?”

“Well, Joe, it’s more like what I did 
not
 do. Or what I forgot to do, if you
want to get technical about it.”

“Get to the point, beer can.”

“Ok, fine. Remember how I tapped into the
wormhole’s sensor data feed, to see what was on the other side? Well, heh heh,
apparently in addition to telling the network to transmit the data to me, I
also need to tell the damned thing to shut 
off

the feed. That is not a problem before the event horizon emerges here, because
until that point, the data feed is transmitted through higher dimensions not
available to the Maxolhx. However, and no way could I have known this- really,
I am the victim here, because the stupid network should have warned me. Man, I
am going to send a 
sternly
-worded
letter to the network, about how it-”

 
“Skippy?
The point, please?”

“Here’s the deal. Once a wormhole is stable, the
data feed begins transmitting in 
local

spacetime, and the feed is two-way. It goes to 
both
 ends of the wormhole. Normally, the data feed goes through
higher 
dimensions
 of spacetime and is
essentially invisible. 
But,
 I requested the data to be
fed to the 
Flying Dutchman
, so the signal went through local spacetime. The
Maxolhx ship picked up the feed. 
That

is how the target ship knew we were here.”

“Ok,” I puffed out a long breath while I thought.
“In the future, you can turn off the data feed, just before the wormhole
emerges?”

“Um, I think so. We had better test it. Like, when
we see there isn’t a ship waiting on the other side, I will instruct the
wormhole to open 
here
, and try
cutting off the data feed. Joe, I can’t promise the stupid network won’t do
some other dumbass thing. It is not very cooperative.”

“Nagatha?” I asked. “What do you think?”

“I must concur with Skippy, both on his
recommendation, and his caution that the network is reluctant to allow outside
control.”

“How long until the ship is ready for action?”

Nagatha responded. “Unknown at this time, the bots
are still assessing the damage. My best guess is the ship will be out of
operation for another three days.”

“Hmm,” I grunted. “Nagatha, is that a real three
days, or are you padding your estimate 
like

Scotty did on Star Trek?”

“Oh, Colonel Bishop,” she was scandalized, but
there was a hint of amusement also. “I would never do 
that
.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER 
TWENTY
EIGHT

 

The ship was ready to fly again in twenty-nine
hours, not three days. Skippy privately told me the damage wasn’t as bad as he
had originally feared, but I still figured Nagatha had padded her estimate.
Also, I gave the order to renew the operation with some repairs still
unfinished. The forward sensor array was being repaired as best we could,
Skippy judged that if we got into a situation where we needed the special
long-range capability of that sensor array, we could just jump away.

You know the saying ‘It never rains but 
it
 pours’? Yeah, it was like that for us. While
Nagatha and Skippy had their bots scurrying all over the ship to fix the
critical damage, two more Maxolhx ships approached the far end of the wormhole,
before we were able to take advantage of the situation. Again, the Universe
just loved screwing with Joe Bishop. The good news was, after testing his
ability three times, Skippy was now confident that he could cut off the
wormhole’s data feed before the event horizon emerged. We were as ready as we
could be.

 

I settled my lazy butt into the command chair
again. My laptop was with me, I planned to work on the official mission report
while I waited.

Smythe called before I could pull up the report
file. “Colonel Bishop, we are ready down here. Let’s do this again, shall we?”

“Hopefully, this time the result is different,” I
replied with a glare 
at Skippy’s
 avatar.
His avatar was standing on an electrical access box next to the main display on
the bridge. I insisted his avatar manifest where I could see him, so I could
shake my fist at it if he screwed up again. “This could take some time, so-”

“Bingo, Joe!” Skippy shouted. “We hit the jackpot
this time. There is an 
Extinction
-class
Maxolhx battlecruiser knocking on the other side of the wormhole, and it is
alone! Ok, I have shut down the data feed. Wow, this is a primo opportunity,
Joe. Battlecruisers do not usually travel without escorts.”

“
Pilot,
 get us moving,” I
ordered, and felt the ship shudder 
slightly

as we began to accelerate as hard as the 
Dutchman
’s battered structure
could take. “Smythe,” I said softly, forcing myself to speak in a calm and
confident manner. Inside, I was shaking and praying ‘Please God, don’t let me
screw up and get everyone killed’. “You heard that?”

“Affirmative. Standing by for Skippy’s ‘Go’
signal.”

 

The battlecruiser came through the wormhole at a
normal, safe and slow speed, since it had not detected the 
Flying Dutchman
. The word ‘slow’ has a different meaning in space
combat, because the target ship was moving at a quarter meter per second
relative to the event horizon. By the time the enemy ship’s nose appeared, the 
Dutchman
 was moving in the same
direction at about two-thirds that speed, paralleling the course of our target.

On the display
, I saw the nose, 
then
 
middle

section of the battlecruiser emerge through the event horizon. Before my mouth
could open to scream for Skippy to do his thing, he activated the bagel slicer.
The event horizon slammed closed, shrinking from maximum diameter to nanoscale
in the blink of an eye. The forward three-quarters of the battlecruiser was
tumbling through empty space in front of us, while the aft section of that ship
was a hundred and seventy lightyears away. The enemy ship was cut in two pieces
as neatly as if a laser scalpel had done the work. The 
Dutchman
 shuddered again as the ready dropships launched, and my
part of the operation was over. The bagel slicer had done its job, now it was
up to the assault team to exploit our brief opportunity, or die trying.

 

United

States Marine Corps Gunnery Sergeant Margaret Adams had braced herself when she
heard Skippy’s announcement of a juicy target coming through the wormhole. ‘Brace’
was not the correct term, because what she actually did was relax most of her
muscles, resting her helmet back against the Falcon’s seat. The muscles she did
tense were those of her stomach and thighs, to prevent blood pooling in her
lower legs from hard acceleration. Unlike the Kristang Dragon type of
dropships, the advanced Thuranin Falcons had a limited ability to protect the
occupants from the effect of acceleration. The lead teams were aboard Falcons,
with the reserve force following in slower-moving Dragons.

She knew the ‘Go’ order had been given even before
she heard the words, because her legs, forearms and neck tingled. Nanomachines
floating in her blood had just constricted her blood vessels, further helping
to prevent blood from being trapped away from her vital organs and brain. She
barely heard ‘Go’ in her helmet speakers before the Falcon rocketed away from
the docking bay. There were two Falcons in each bay, facing toward the target
so the assault dropships did not need to waste time maneuvering other than
racing toward the enemy ship, then slowing to match course and speed.

Even with the compensating field generated by her
seat, she felt a force seven times that of Earth’s gravity as the Falcon’s main
engines surged at full military thrust, augmented by the seldom-used and noisy
booster motors. Blood pounded in her ears, muffling the grunts of the pilots
over the common channel.

“Shit,” one of the pilots gasped. “Target is
spinning.” She paused to take a breath. “This will get rough.”

That had been one of the chief concerns in
planning the mission; that the bagel slicer would leave the target ship
spinning unpredictably. There was a limit to the amount of spin the Falcons
could adjust for in their attempt to latch onto the battlecruiser. Above the
limit, the pilots would have to wait for the spin to stabilize, then approach
the axis at the center. The worst situation would be for the target to be
tumbling around more than one axis. Skippy thought the automated emergency
systems of a Maxolhx warship would reduce the amount of spinning and tumbling
that the assault force would need to deal with. The beer can 
admitted
 his guesswork was all theory, until
they went into action.

Adams clamped her teeth together as the Falcon
went ever so briefly into zero gravity, then the acceleration came back on even
harder after the craft flipped around. Her stomach was fairly empty as she had
eaten a quick-digesting, low-residue meal, so if she did 
ralph
 she wouldn’t foul the inside of her
helmet faceplate. Tasting bile and wondering how the hell her stomach 
had the strength
 to send anything up to her mouth, she
renewed her determination not to puke, not to be the only one who lost her
breakfast on the mission.

That determination was severely tested as the
Falcon flipped on its side, then slewed sickeningly to the left.

 

In that Falcon’s cockpit, Fireball Reed struggled
to breathe evenly. The outer edges of her vision were already tinged with red
as the heavy gees starved her optic nerves of oxygen. From practice, she knew
to focus on the vital cluster of instruments directly in front of her,
instruments placed there in a dense display so she could still maintain
situational awareness if she suffered tunnel vision. With the red filling an
ever-increasing part of her visual field, tunnel-vision was becoming more
likely.

As the lead pilot of the Merry Band of Pirates,
Major Reed had expected Bishop to insist she 
remain

aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
 during the
assault operation. Instead, he wanted her flying the lead bird, the one
carrying Smythe, Adams and two of their five functional 
combots
. If the assault failed, he explained, the 
Dutchman
 could jump away with the press
of a button, something even Bishop could handle. The crucial role in the
assault was the actions of the dropships, and that is where he needed Reed.
Bishop had also insisted that Desai temporarily relinquish her role as XO so
she could fly one of the other Falcons, a decision the Indian Air Force
Lieutenant Colonel had agreed with.

Sami Reed had been prepared to argue with the
Pirate commander, so she was thrilled when he acted like assigning her to a
Falcon was his idea. Maybe it 
had

been his idea. 
Whatever.
 All she knew at
that moment was that the target ship was spinning near the limit of her
Falcon’s ability to compensate, and she had only ten, possibly twelve seconds
to latch on, before she would need to veer away so the ship behind her could
try its luck.

Some small part of her mind reprimanded her for
signing up to be a Pirate, the same part of her mind that had tried to warn her
before she acquired her unfortunate callsign. From that day, she could not
smell cinnamon without feeling faintly queasy.

She had no breath to spare for talking and her
copilot knew that Sami had command of the spacecraft. Without speaking, the
Japanese man seated to her right was expertly pinpointing a point where they
could latch on, a location chosen by Skippy even before the Falcon had shot out
of the docking bay like a shell from a cannon. Sami knew her copilot had to be
suffering from the same vision-restricting effects of deceleration, yet he had
not lost focus.

The cockpit display was becoming fuzzy, so her 
flightsuit
 automatically switched to the
head-up projection on the inside of her helmet, showing her only the
information she needed. The ship’s automated systems had taken over all systems
other than guidance. The Falcon had launched with landing skids extended, one
less thing she needed to worry about.

She had an impression of some kind of turret
whizzing past on the right, before she leaned the control stick over and
activated thrusters to line up with a relatively smooth area of the
battlecruiser’s hull. In her visor, the area was outlined in yellow as the
prime target for boarding, because it was adjacent to a large airlock. There
was a sharp, shuddering bang as the skids hit, lost contact as they bounced over
something with a screeching sound, and latched on then broke away. As the craft
slid across the hull of the alien battlecruiser, there was a hard thump and it
rolled to the left as the righthand skid lost its grip.

There was a sudden eerie silence, with only the
faint whine of the righthand skid’s clamping mechanism engaging. “We’re down!”
She spat in a weak voice. “Smythe-”

“Moving,” the STAR leader grunted as the straps
released him.

 

 

Margaret Adams was second to last out the rear
ramp of the Falcon. Technically, she was the last 
person
, because the last being to leave the Falcon was a Thuranin 
combot
 under her control.

“Ready, Gunny?” Petty Officer Second Class Pete
Gonzalez asked, without looking back. He focused his attention on the
busted-open airlock in front of him, and not on the starfield that 
dizzingly
 swept past as the target’s hull spun
end over end again and again and again-

He forced himself not to think about the spinning.
The sliced-open hull was not only spinning nose over cut-off tail, 
it was
 also wobbling side to side and
intermittently jerked in one direction or another as power relays blew or
thrusters tried to fire or simply because 
air

was venting from shattered compartments. An especially violent movement
occurred just as Gonzalez stepped off the Falcon’s back ramp on to the enemy
hull, making him glad for the training that had made him secure one boot to a
hard surface before lifting the other foot. If not for the grip of that one
boot, he would have gone flying off into space and needed his armored suit’s
limited flying ability to bring him back into the fight.

“Behind you,” Adams 
replied
 
tersely
. “Take 
lead
,” she added without needing to, because having
the petty officer in the lead was the plan. They needed to move and move fast,
to cripple the enemy’s ability to fight back, ability to regain control over
the ship, ability to even understand the situation and who had dared to attack
a senior-species warship. 
To prevent the enemy
from taking control of the ship
, the assault teams needed to cut data
connections in any fifteen of nineteen precisely-defined locations around the
interior, plus jack Skippy’s remote presence into any five of fourteen possible
access points. There were more than fourteen possible access points, but the
mission planning had determined that the designated fourteen points were the
only ones the teams could get to before the enemy reacted and crushed the
attackers.

Adams and Gonzalez had a 
combot
 with them for two reasons. Their assigned targets inside the
hull were deeper inside the ship and therefore more difficult and
time-consuming to approach. The enemy would have more time to determine what
was happening and set up defenses, therefore the two of them were more likely
to encounter organized and determined opposition. That explained why a
precious, heavily-armed-and-armored 
combot

was assigned to that objective. Margaret Adams had been assigned to operate a 
combot
 because she had extensive experience
with the deadly machines.

The other reason she had been assigned a 
combot
 was 
because
before the operation, Colonel
 Joseph Bishop had a tense argument with
the STAR team commander. No, Adams was not to get special treatment. Yes, she
was a professional and knew the risks. She was getting a hulking armored alien
killing machine, and a Navy SEALS operator to watch her back, because those
were the Goddamned 
orders
 from the
mission commander and if 
Lieutenant

Colonel Smythe did not like that, he could sit this one out.

Thus, Gunnery Sergeant Adams had a SEALS petty
officer scouting the way, and a 
combot

with software upgraded and monitored by an asshole AI. Because, even if the
mission commander was unable to admit it, Skippy the freakin’ Magnificent had
no problem stating that Margaret Adams 
was

special.

 

With Gonzalez in the lead, Adams guided the combot
into the darkened ship. With her suit’s computer controlling the grip of her
boots, kneepads, elbows and gloves, she moved swiftly along in the zero-gravity
environment, guided by the synthetic vision of her visor. The path to the
objective was outlined clearly, even if the actual scene in front of her was a
chaos of flash-frozen atmosphere, shattered objects drifting in the corridors
and occasional reflected light of explosions. She had four comms channels open.
The private channel for herself and Gonzalez, who was moving smoothly and
quickly in front of her, expertly scouting intersections and signaling it was
clear to proceed. The assault team command channel so Smythe, Giraud and Kapoor
could issue orders. The channel to the 
Flying
Dutchman
, which would only be used in an emergency so dire that the mission
was an utter failure. And a channel that was a feed from Skippy, who monitored
the overall battle for the three assault team leaders. From that last channel,
Adams knew not all was well with the assault. Giraud’s team had run into
trouble almost immediately and were on the defensive, unable to reach their
objectives. They were now focused on keeping the enemy from interfering with
the teams of Smythe and Kapoor, while they approached their individual
objectives. Giraud had already suffered two dead, and two others were no longer
combat-effective. Yet, a small part of Adams’s mind was proud that no one had
panicked, no one had broken discipline. She had not heard anyone call for
reinforcements or covering fire, and the background layer of her visor display
showed that nine of the required fifteen data connections had been cut, plus
Skippy’s remote 
presence
 was already
jacked into two access points. That was all good news. 
The bad
 news was that with Giraud’s team unable to make progress,
the remaining objectives were almost all mandatory, or the entire mission would
be a failure.

Another small part of her mind, a part she was
able to ignore because of self-discipline and training, reminded her that she
was aboard a senior-species warship, fighting an impossibly advanced enemy on
their own turf. If she had panicked, she would certainly have a damned good reason
to, for lowly humans had no business attacking the apex predators in the
galaxy.

She did not listen to that panicked part of her
mind. Another part of her mind told her that she had several advantages.
Surprise, for the Maxolhx had been caught totally off-guard. The enemy would be
equipped with environment suits that deployed automatically, but not combat
armor. Battlecruisers typically did not carry a complement of ground-assault
troops, and the armory where heavy combat suits and weapons were stored, was in
the aft part of the ship that was over a hundred lightyears away. Most of the
enemy would not have 
time
 or opportunity
to acquire light weapons from lockers scattered around the ship. Many of the 
enemy
 were dead, injured or in shock from the
sudden attack. They had no way to communicate beyond 
line
 of sight, so the opposition was individuals or small, isolated
groups. And the enemy’s access to their ship AI had been abruptly cut off. The
Maxolhx who were still capable of fighting had no idea who had attacked their
ship, so their imaginations must be running wild. Only someone with advanced
technology would dare assault a senior-species capital ship, so the surviving
crew must be facing an enemy with capabilities far beyond their own. The
Pirates, who were in Kristang armor, hoped that fear of the unknown would cause
the Maxolhx to make 
bad
 decisions.

Unfortunately, the Pirates had little 
realtime
 intel about the enemy. Skippy was
still struggling to prevent the ship’s AI from restoring control, so he had no
access to internal sensors other than those of the armor suits worn by the
assault team. The Pirates therefore had no idea what was around the next bend
in a corridor, until they got there.

They also had no idea what was 
behind
 them.

“Contact!” Gonzalez whispered. Keeping his voice
low was a habit from SEALS training but it was not necessary 
in
 that situation. He was encased in a
hardshell armored suit with excellent sound insulation. The corridor was
exposed to hard vacuum. And he shot off a rocket and a burst of armor-piercing
rounds at the same time he spoke. In space, no one can hear you whisper, and
they can’t hear bullets either.

But they sure as hell could see the fireballs of
explosions and feel the deck shudder beneath their boots. It took less than a
second to let fly a rocket and send two three-round bursts at the vague outline
of the target, the second burst was squeezed off while he was dodging violently
to the right to clear the field of fire. With his peripheral vision, he had a
brief glance of 
something
 coming at
him from the front, then the bulkhead beside him erupted and flung him 
backwards
.

As he windmilled his arms, he slapped a palm on
some surface, it may have been the deck. The suit secured the glove to the
surface and jerked him to a halt. Indicators were flashing yellow and orange in
his visor, showing minor damage to his suit that the reservoirs of nanomachines
were repairing as best they could. He 
was still
combat
-effective.

So was Adams and the combot.

So why the hell wasn’t she shooting back at the
enemy?

“Gunny-”

“Booby trap,” she hissed to him. “Some kind of IED
you triggered,” she explained, and highlighted a view forward in his visor.
“The target you shot at was already dead,” she added, and the image she sent
rolled back, to show the headless body of a Maxolhx floating in the corridor,
right before he tore the corpse apart with a rocket.

“IED? Then-”

 

Before Gonzalez could finish the thought, Adams
already had the combot rotating to face to the rear. She was 
turning also
, and her instincts served her
almost well enough. Just after the combot detected a target and cut loose with
its autocannon, something tore into the killing machine and a piece broke off
to slam hard into Gonzalez. Adams had a split-second image of her companion’s
suit going offline before the combot was torn apart and she was knocked
sideways to crack her helmet into a bulkhead.

Her suit was flashing orange warnings, with the
most ominous message being ‘SENSOR RESET’. Without sensors, she was blind, and
it felt like her brain was rebooting from being smashed into a wall. A shaky 
eyeclick
 made the faceplate go clear, and she
was able to rely on the old Mark One eyeball sensor.

Beside her, the combot was in pieces, sparks
arcing outward. The machine was moving only in a jerky, uncoordinated fashion
and was no longer linked to her suit. Effectively, it was dead, no longer an
asset to her.

What else? Something else was torn apart; a
Maxolhx who had been cut in half by the 
combot’s

autocannon before the machine ceased functioning.

And a second Maxolhx, clad in a matte-gray
environment suit. It had been holding some type of 
hand weapon
, which was now on the deck, out of reach. Cursing to
herself and shaking her head to clear her fuzzy vision, she raised her rifle
and-

It was not responding. Why- The barrel and casing
were 
cracked
. 

“You can’t use that weapon, primitive,” the
haughty senior-species warrior said with a voice that gurgled from blood
seeping into its mouth. With its good arm, it reached behind its back for
another weapon.

“Watch this, motherfucker.” Adams flipped her
useless rifle 
around
 so she was holding the barrel.
Her suit, sensing the adrenaline surging into her blood, automatically went to
full power-assist mode, just below the level at which she would risk injuring
herself. 

She threw herself forward at the shocked enemy,
driving the rifle butt into its helmet with maximum force. Alarms screamed in
her ears and flashed red in her vision as the suit protested, but it did 
exactly
 what she ordered. The rifle’s stock
cracked on the first blow, from being struck by a 
force
 beyond its design limits. She gripped the barrel tighter,
trusting her suit’s computer to understand she did not want to snap the alien
weapon in half. A split-second after her first blow landed, the rifle again
slammed full-force into the Maxolhx warrior’s super-tough helmet. And that
helmet 
cracked
 under the kinetic
hammering.

Shit
,
Adams thought with a flash of panic. As her arms drove forward again, the enemy
dodged to her right at amazing speed, too fast for her reflexes to follow. She
would have missed except she had an ace in the hole: Skippy the Magnificent.
That smug asshole beer can 
had
 stripped
out the original software of the Kristang armored suit she wore, and enhanced
its processing speed and capacity so it was almost a 
submind
. The suit she was assigned to was 
hers
, not only because it was fitted to her athletic form. Assisted
by Skippy, the suit’s onboard computer had learned how Adams moved and fought
during extensive training exercises, and it anticipated her intentions. Without
her conscious input, the suit changed the trajectory of its arms to follow the
enemy’s helmet. Not only follow but 
lead
,
so the smashed stock of the rifle arrived where the 
target
 helmet was. The suit computer assessed the situation,
including factors such as the overall tactical situation of the assault team,
the estimated level of force the rifle could take before it became uselessly small
pieces, the condition of the enemy combatant, and the fact that Margaret freakin’
Adams was not going to stop until her opponent was dead, no matter the cost to
herself.

The suit computer calculated those factors,
engaged in a very brief conversation with one of Skippy’s lesser 
subminds
, and came to a conclusion of ‘I gotta
get this shit over with 
right fucking NOW’
.
Thus, it took control of the nanomotors and the arms reared back then forward
with blinding speed, with the remainder of the rifle aimed at a hairline crack
in the enemy’s helmet. The rifle’s barrel punched through the helmet’s
faceplate and drove straight through the face, skull and brain of the vastly
superior enemy, before it mushroomed against the rear inside of the helmet.

The suit’s gloves released the shattered pieces
that were left of her rifle, and Adams slumped 
away
,
drifting backward to thump against the opposite wall in the zero gravity. Her
suit’s sensors had now reset, and only a few yellow icons indicated faults with
the suit. “Gonzalez?” She asked automatically.

“Still here,” the petty officer croaked. “My suit
is busted. Both 
legs
 are inoperable. Right
shoulder can’t move. Shit. I can hold a rifle with my left-”

“You stay here,” she ordered, aware that time was
slipping away, and time was on the enemy’s side. She needed to get to their
objective, right 
now
.

Gonzalez might have argued, but he was a professional.
“Take my rifle,” he offered.

“Keep it, and cover my six.” She walked over to
the combot, her boots clicking as they kept her clinging to the deck. Bending
down over the combot, she inspected the autocannon. The arm it was 
attached
 to was 
shattered
,
but the autocannon appeared intact. Pressing a status button showed green.
“Suit, command the combot to release the autocannon.”

“That is not advisable. But,” the suit sighed,
“since I know you are going to do it anyway, the autocannon system is now under
control of this suit. The icons are in the lower lefthand corner of your
visor.”

Part of Margaret’s brain wondered when the hell
her suit had acquired a personality so it could sigh, while the rest of her
attention was taken up by accessing the jury-rigged control system. “Right, got
it.” She pulled the cannon free and hefted it. In zero gravity, it had no 
weight
 but it still had 
mass
,
and it was awkward to handle. “Suit, you can compensate for the recoil of this
elephant gun?”

“Not completely. Please, 
please
, avoid hazardous situations.”

“I am a Marine,” she said as she 
eyeclicked
 to deactivate the elephant gun’s
safeties. “Hazardous situations is what we do. Gonzalez?”

“Covering your six,” he coughed up blood, “Gunny.
No bad guys are getting past me,” he said as he used his one good arm to drag
himself behind the skimpy cover of the broken Thuranin combat machine.

 

Adams pulled herself forward with one arm,
cradling the autocannon with the other. It was awkward and she kept getting off
balance, forcing her to kick off the bulkheads with her feet. This is stupid,
she told herself after the fourth time she ended up spinning in the middle of a
corridor. She could not control the elephant gun with one arm, and every time
she kicked the wall, overhead or deck, there was a 
thump
 she could feel. She had been flying along the corridor for
speed, and to avoid her boots clomping along the deck and alerting the enemy.
Because moving with the bulky cannon was so awkward, she was slow and bumping
into the bulkheads anyway.

Tossing the autocannon gently in front of her, she
flipped head over heels and extended her legs until her boots contacted the
deck and adhered securely. Pulling the spinning cannon to her, she got both
hands wrapped around it, and set off up the corridor at a steady run, moving
faster as she built up momentum.

In front of her, the corridor bent to the left,
with another corridor coming in from the right, just in view. Should she rely
on surprise if an enemy was around the corner?

No. The 
vibration

of her boots had surely given away her presence, to anyone who was conscious.
She slowed, shifting the elephant gun to her left arm, and pulled a pair of
grenades off her belt. In the zero gravity, it took little effort to toss them
down the two corridors. The one to the right flew straight, the other bounced
off a wall to the left and out of view.

She saw and felt the explosions, feeling it odd
that no sound accompanied the violence. “Ok, Maggie,” she whispered to herself.
The diagram on her suit showed that one of her two objectives was just around
to the right, a data connection that had to be cut. The final objective was to
the left, a dismaying distance deeper inside the ship. Smythe had not ordered
her to cease fire, so she had to keep going. Her own data connection was
spotty, cutting in and out. What she was sure of was the others were still
fighting.

It was not good to be alone. While planning the
mission, Smythe had considered fewer, larger teams that could provide better
support. In the end, with objectives so widely scattered inside the alien ship
and speed crucial, the SAS man had decided to divide up his force into teams of
two. That, in Skippy’s opinion, gave 
the humans

their best chance to reach the required number of objectives before the enemy
could react and stop them.

The option also gave 
the humans
 the worst odds of survival.

After shrapnel from the grenades 
pinged
 off her suit, she ran forward.
Making the sharp turn to the right would be tricky, she opted to aim for a spot
on the left side of the righthand corridor, and thumped into it with an armored
shoulder. Straightening herself out before she crashed into the opposite wall,
she strode forward, picking up speed-

And stumbled to a
halt.
 Her visor was outlining the data connection objective, overlaying
it with a 
grid like
 Luke Skywalker saw
when targeting the exhaust port of the Death Star. “Got you,” she muttered,
dropping to one knee and bringing the autocannon to bear, selecting
single-round shots and fragmentation mode. Using the rounds in armor-piercing
mode might send the rounds to punch clean holes all the way through the ship
without damaging the target.

The first round knocked her 
backward
 and she recovered, seeing she had
missed. Bracing the cannon against a frame that stuck out into the corridor,
she sent one, two, three rounds to blow ragged holes in the target. After the
third round, the outline in her visor switched to blue, indicating that data
connection was no longer an objective. “One more. Once more into the breach,”
she said, annoyed with herself for talking to no one.

The last objective, where she could jack Skippy’s
presence into an access point, was behind her, down the other corridor. Knowing
her suit was trying to inform the team that she had taken out the data
connection, she swung the big cannon around, its barrel smacking into the
bulkhead, throwing her off balance. Annoyed with herself again, she got the
elephant gun balanced properly and-

The cannon exploded, jerking out of her hands. Something
impacted her back and the visor blinked out, her suit power cut off. A single
red light blinked in the lower left corner of her vision, informing her that
backup power was being restored.

Too late. Laying prone against the deck, no, it was
a bulkhead, she felt vibrations as someone approached.

A Maxolhx stood staring at her, an oddly
bulbous-looking pistol in one hand. The creature tilted its head, looking in
obvious surprise at her face inside the clear faceplate. Whatever the Maxolhx expected,

humans
 had not been on the list.

She was dead, she knew it. Moving to throw a
grenade would be too slow, the alien would shoot her first. But her right arm
was already behind her back, and a turn of her wrist brought the activation
button of a grenade under that thumb. “Adios, asshole,” she groaned as she
press-

“No!” She was startled as Skippy’s voice pounded
into her ears. “Margaret 
don’t
! I got-”

“Been nice knowing you, Skippy,” she felt for the
button again, and her thumb-

Jerked away as the pistol held by the Maxolhx
exploded in a shower of sparks and plasma, tearing that being’s arm away and
shredding its torso.

 

When she was able to speak again, spots were still
swimming in her vision, she took a sip of water from the helmet’s reservoir.
Her suit was operating on backup power and working to restore as much function
as it could. “Skippy,” she asked. “What the hell was that?”

“I had control of the ship. It happened about, oh,
twelve seconds before you blew up that data connection.”

“So, I didn’t need to do that?” She shuddered in
the suit. She had put her life at risk for nothing.

“You did. In fact, it would be great if you could
go jack me 
into
 that access point. The
ship’s AI is still fighting me, and I want to remove its ability to contact
subsidiary systems. Don’t worry. I now have full sensor access of the interior,
and there are only two Maxolhx alive right now. Giraud is engaging them 
now,
 they are no threat to you.”

“Gonzalez?”

“He will be fine,” Skippy assured her.

“This was a tough fight, Skippy. With the weapons
the Maxolhx have, these Kristang suits can only take one hit.”

“It’s worse than that. The kitties only had access
to 
hand weapons
 like pistols, and they
were in standard shipboard environment suits. This could have been a 
very
 bloody fight.”

“Was it?”

“Uh, I had better let Smythe tell his team about
that. I am about to go through the wormhole, so we will lose contact briefly.
Good! Oh, sorry, I was excited because Giraud’s team just took out the last two
kitties. Gotta go- Uh, are you Ok, Margaret?”

“I’m fine, Skippy. Fine. Do what you gotta do.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER 
TWENTY
NINE

 

After Skippy declared, with a 
solid
 
shmaybe
, that we had
control of the battlecruiser, I ordered him to recon the other side of the
wormhole, the side where the aft end of the target ship should be. The aft
quarter of the ship we had sliced apart contained all the important engineering
components we needed to make the ship useful; 
power-generation,
normal-space engines and the jump drive
. The bagel slicer had left the
two parts of the ship separated by a hundred and seventy-eight lightyears, now
that the forward section of the ship was under our 
control

we needed to get the other part
. If
 we
could.

We had wounded people aboard the forward section
of the target ship, and I hated the idea of leaving them, but that was the
mission. 

Because the wormhole was open at other endpoints
right then, we had to wait for it to shut down on its normal schedule, then
Skippy instructed it to do its recon thing. “
I’m
not seeing
 anything, Joe,” the disappointment was evident in his voice.
He wanted to be the hero by locating the other part of the target ship, and he
couldn’t. “It may have drifted out of range by now.”

He did not mention the other possibility; that the
engineering section of that ship had exploded. “Ok, when can we go through, to
check it?”

“Give me a minute to get a status. Oh, nuts. There
are a pair of Thuranin ships waiting to go through at another location. If the
wormhole doesn’t open on schedule, they will alert everyone this wormhole is
acting strangely.”

“How long until it is scheduled to shut down
again?”

“It will remain open at that location for eighteen
minutes. Joe, by that time, the backup systems aboard the aft section of the
ship will surely have established control. It will be a very tough fight to
capture the-”

“Yeah, I know. Shit. All right, we wait. Nagatha,
tell Smythe that he’s on his own over there, we won’t have time to take a
dropship aboard before the wormhole opens for us.”

 

We waited. My alter-ego No Patience Man was about
to explode. If I wanted, I could have looked at data from the assault team’s
suits and seen the status of each person. That would tell me who we had lost,
who was injured and how serious each case was.

I 
did

want to do that. 

I did 
not

do that, because as the commander, my job was to focus on the big picture, the
overall mission, and not get distracted by details. Details, like playing
favorites by worrying about one person. I could not do that, no matter how much
I wanted to.

Everyone else aboard the ship had something useful
to do, while I sat in the command chair, feeling useless. To take my mind off
worrying about anything and everything, I wanted to take out my tablet and play
a game, even solitaire. But that would be disrespectful to the crew, and Skippy
would gleefully rat me out in a heartbeat. 

Finally, Skippy took temporary control of the
wormhole again and reconnected it to where the battlecruiser had come through.
Again, the sensors of the wormhole did not detect any hazards on the other
side, they did not detect 
anything
 on
the other side. To be safe, we sent a remote-controlled Dragon through ahead of
us, in case somebody was out there looking to shoot at whoever sliced a ship
apart. The Dragon’s crappy Kristang sensors, even upgraded by Skippy, did not
see anything, so I ordered the 
Dutchman

to go through.

And, damn it, soon after our sensors recovered
from the spatial distortion of transitioning through the wormhole, we detected
debris. There wasn’t a lot of it, and the tiny pieces we saw were in a sphere
that was expanding away from us in all directions.

It was quiet aboard the ship, then Skippy spoke
for all of us. “Well, shit.”

“It’s gone?”

“Looks that way, yeah. Sorry.”

I wasted no time. “Pilot, take us back through the
wormhole and rendezvous with the target, I want to take the wounded aboard
immediately.”

She acknowledged my orders and the pilots
responded by pulling the ship into a tight turn, but I knew we first had to
cancel our forward momentum before we could head back to the wormhole. In the
meantime, people could be dying from lack of medical care. Our pursuit of the
target’s aft end had been for nothing, and had consumed valuable time.

“Skippy, what happened?” I asked, being careful
not to be angry with him.

“My guess is, their jump drive capacitors
overloaded. Damn it! I was 
so
 careful
about exactly where I sliced that ship apart. Far enough forward to not cut
through reactors or missile magazines or banks of capacitors, but far enough
back that the forward section lost power and sent the control AI into shock. It
was very precise work, Joe. Apparently, I misjudged it somehow. Plus, heh heh,
um-”

“Heh heh what?” That time, I did care if he knew I
was angry.

“Well, I might have over-estimated my level of
control over the wormhole. They have multiple safety features to prevent the
event horizons from collapsing while a ship is going through, which makes
sense. When I ordered the wormhole to close, it resisted me. It took me six
tries before I found the right combination of codes, to override the safeties.
During that delay, the target ship was moving forward, so the bagel slicer cut
into it farther back than I intended.”

“Oh, crap. Now we have the forward part of a ship
that doesn’t have any power supply or propulsion.”

“Pretty much, yeah.”

I crossed my fingers and hoped for good luck. “Are
you going to tell me this is a bad news-good news thing?”

“Ah, meh,” he spat with disgust. “It’s a bad news-
maybe
 good news thing, Joe. I now know
how to bypass those safety features, so next time I might be more precise. The
reason I say ‘maybe’ is, I don’t know whether the wormhole network is
reinforcing those safety features, or whether it might lock me out from using
that feature.”

“Crap.”

“There is some good news,” he suggested. “After
examining the battlecruiser we captured, I am now confident that I can slice
the next ship farther forward.”

“Fantastic, except, you said it is rare for
battlecruisers to travel without escorts,” I snapped at him. I was pissed that
we had lost people, for nothing. A ship without power generation or propulsion
was no use to us, and we had a limited number of times we could roll the dice
on the bagel slicer, before the network locked Skippy out. “The next ship might
have a different sweet spot, and you won’t know that until 
it 
approaches the wormhole and you have a 
couple
 seconds to scan it. That is not-”

“Joe, before you work up a truly inspiring rant,
allow me to educate you about a few facts you do not know. First, a 
couple of
 
seconds

is 
plenty
 of time for me to scan a
ship, evaluate it and determine exactly where to slice it apart. Second,
Maxolhx warships have a common layout of their internal structures, from
frigates up to battleships. The basic design is scalable, so once I know the
vulnerable spot of one ship, it applies to all of them. Third, and 
damn
 it is hard to resist the urge to
call you a numbskull, I do have news that is unquestionably good. From the
captured ship’s database, I determined that the next Maxolhx ship coming
through this wormhole is indeed another 
Extinction
-class
battlecruiser. It will arrive, alone, within eighty-one hours.”

“Oh. That is good news, Skippy. I’m, uh, sorry for
doubting you.”

“Hmmph. You doubted me 
becaaaause
?”

“Because I did not trust the awesomeness. Ok,
don’t keep me guessing. How did we get so lucky to have two battlecruisers fall
into our lap?”

“It’s simple, Joe. The Maxolhx dispersed their
fleet to punish the Bosphuraq for the outrageous thing that 
we
 did,” he chuckled. “Now they are
pulling their major combatants back to concentrate their forces, in case the
Rindhalu get adventurous. The ships are not traveling with escorts, because the
lesser ships are needed to watch the Bosphuraq, and because the Maxolhx want to
show they fear nothing. After the second battlecruiser, there will be a pair of
heavy cruisers that might be traveling together, then a heavy cruiser traveling
on its own. That is all the data I got from that ship.”

“Five ships, hmm? That sounds like a target-rich
environment,” I rubbed my hands together, realizing I looked like an
over-the-top villain in a James Bond movie.

“Don’t get your hopes up, Joe,” he warned me.

“I won’t.” Checking the display assured me the
wormhole was still open behind us, and that the 
Dutchman
 was lining up
to go through. We needed to recover the assault team, and see exactly what we
had.

 

 

The answer was that we had three people dead,
three more seriously wounded, and nine others whose 
injuries
 would keep them out of the next operation, unless Doctor
Skippy could work some real magic with his nanomedicine.

Three dead. For what? All we had was the forward
hull of an advanced battlecruiser, a hull segment that was nearly useless
without its power source. Smythe, Giraud and Kapoor assured me the operation
had been a success, we had suffered lighter losses than they had been prepared
for. They also reminded me that the fight wasn’t over yet, we had other
opportunities to capture the 
components

we needed to make our battlecruiser hull a supremely powerful weapon. It was my
job to see that we completed the mission successfully, and the people we lost 
had not given their lives for nothing
.

Smythe was the last person off our newly-captured
battlecruiser. I was nervous about leaving the hulk drifting on its own, but
Skippy assured me he had severed the control AI’s connections to anything
vital, and the 
submind
 he had installed
had the resident AI locked down. We needed the STAR team to capture another
ship, so I really didn’t have a choice. 
After

bringing
 the assault teams back aboard, I
wanted to rush down to the converted cargo holds where they stored their gear,
but I forced myself to concentrate on my own task. I had not participated in
the boarding action. If I went down to the STAR team section of the ship right
then, I would be an outsider. A cheerleader. The team needed time by
themselves, time to be with people who had been through the experience
together, people who understood how they felt.

So, I sat in my command chair, and did nothing.

 

 

Margaret Adams needed the help of Captain Frey 
to get
 her armored suit off, both of them working
carefully together, to avoid damaging the tough yet vulnerable flesh and bones
under the alien suit. Compared to Adams, Frey’s own suit was in good condition,
but the Canadian soldier grimaced when she walked. “You Ok, Captain?” Adams
looked down as Frey limped gingerly across the deck, carrying a segment of 
armored
 suit.

“Think I tore a muscle in my calf,” the other
woman answered, lifting her right leg.

Adams looked at Frey’s right leg armor. There were
scars, but not any holes or dents, no obvious reason for an injury. The captain’s
suit torso, on the other hand, had deep scratches and dents, gouges deep enough
that the nano liquid had flowed into a gap to prevent air from venting. With
the torso resting on a rack and waiting repairs, Frey’s chest and left shoulder
had angry purple bruises, visible where the skin was not covered by her
undershirt. “You got hit pretty hard,” Adams pointed to the battered suit torso
segment.

“This?” Frey looked at her battered armor. “No,
that was just a 
ricochet
. If I got 
hit
, I’d be dead. This,” she lifted her
right leg and had to steady herself against a locker. “Happened after we came
back aboard the 
Dutchman
. 
First
 step I took in gravity, I felt a pop in
my calf. It’s embarrassing, I wasn’t 
doing

anything.” 

“Your armor was damaged. The motors may not have
been working properly,” Adams suggested.

Frey tried to laugh, but grimaced instead. Her
left shoulder hung 
limply,
 she couldn’t move it. The
damage was not just soreness, she knew she had torn something important, and it
would take time to heal. Until then, she would be out of action. “I like that 
story,
 I’ll go with that one. You can get the rest of your
armor stowed, Gunnery Sergeant?”

“Squared away, Ma’am,” Adams said, and Frey limped
away to assist someone else.

 
Adams
stowed the last piece of her armor, tracing a finger 
along
 the scorched soot and something darker that coated the left
side. The dark material might be Gonzalez’s blood. She closed her eyes, praying
silently for the badly injured sailor. Remembering that terrifying moment, she
looked up. “Skippy, I-” She stopped to look around at the other STAR team
operators, all engaged in removing and caring for their suits. “Hey, did anyone
else discover their suit computer has developed a 
personality
?”

“Yes,” Giraud grunted as he removed his helmet.
“It was a surprise to me.”

“Hey,” Skippy chuckled. “You are welcome.”

“I was not praising you, beer can,” Giraud winced
as he tried to reach back with his right arm, to release the seal so he could
remove the suit’s torso. Sharp pain in that shoulder prevented him from raising
that arm high enough to reach the seal. With his suit’s left arm inoperable, he
needed help. Seeing Giraud in pain, Frey hung up her helmet and “It was an
 unpleasant
 surprise.”

“Ugh, are you complaining about the suit’s French
accent? I assure you-”

“Skippy,” Adams bit her lower lip, to give her
time to hold back the angry comment she wanted to say. “That is not the point.
We train the way we fight. If we’re going to interact with a suit personality
in combat, we need that personality to function in training also.”

“Hmm,” Skippy sniffed. “From 
what
 I have observed, the way you monkeys fight
is 
to quickly adapt to unpredictable situations
.”

“Yes,” she said through clenched teeth as several
of her STARs teammates pantomimed choking the beer can. “We 
know
 we will encounter something unexpected
on every mission. Because of that, we don’t want anything unpredictable that we
can control.”

“Ok, but the enhancement I loaded into your suits
was sort of a last-minute thing for me. It did help you, right?”

Adams looked at Giraud and Frey, too appalled to
speak.

“
Merde
,”
the French paratrooper gasped. “You sent us into combat with an untested
system?”

“It wasn’t 
untested
,
Rene,” Skippy backpedaled, understanding he was in trouble. “I ran over six
hundred thousand simulations before-”

“It was not tested by 
us
,” Giraud insisted. “Your simulations have proven to be
incomplete before.”

“Ok, but, um,” he sputtered, on the defensive in a
situation when he thought he would be praised for his initiative. “It did help,
right?”

Adams sighed, reminding herself that they were
dealing with a clueless alien AI. “Skippy, we don’t 
know
 whether our suits having a personality is good or not. We
won’t know, until we test that capability in training. I found it distracting
for my suit to be talking with me. That might only be that I didn’t expect it.
The point is, you sprung this on us without the team testing it. That can’t happen.
Do you understand that?”

“Yes,” he replied quietly, in the voice of a small
boy who is asked if he understands why he shouldn’t be allowed to drive the
car. “I won’t do that again. Um, well, I really can’t promise that. I make
updates 
to ship
 systems constantly, and
your suits learn every time you use them. What I can do is 
promise
 to review any major upgrades with you
before I load them, Ok?”

Giraud shook his head slowly. “Skippy,” he grunted
as Frey helped him pull the dented armor away from his left arm. “We know you
mean well, most of the time. 
But,
 you are not a
biological being as we are. You do not appreciate our limits. Colonel Smythe 
must
 approve any significant change to
the equipment we rely on.”

“Ok,” Skippy replied in a whisper. “I’m sorry.”

 

In her cabin, Adams grimaced while trying to get
her T-shirt off. The suit moving its arms under the command of the computer had
saved her life. That action had also left her with very sore muscles, because
her actual arms had not anticipated the sudden movements of the powered limbs,
motions that were faster than her muscles could accomplish or compensate for.
Luckily, she did not feel anything grinding in her shoulders, wrists or elbows
as she carefully flexed each arm. Getting her shirt off by herself required
hooking it on a cabinet handle, and wriggling it upward until she could get it
over her head. As she slid the sweat-stained garment off, she reconsidered
whether she might have torn a muscle; her right bicep felt like it was on fire.
A trip to sickbay would be a wise precaution, when people who had been more
seriously injured had been treated. Like the rest of the ship, the medical
facilities had become worn out and lacked critical supplies. When the 
Flying Dutchman
 had been captured, the
Thuranin medical facility had miraculous abilities. After Skippy modified the
surgical gear and adapted the nanomachines to human biology, the Pirates had been
able to heal seemingly fatal wounds and even regrow shattered limbs. Now the
supply of 
nanomeds
 was depleted by
healing past injuries, and also because Skippy had been forced to repurpose
those precious nanomachines to keep the ship flying. Sacrificing medical
capability for combat readiness had been a tough call by Colonel Bishop, and
Adams had agreed. That did not mean she didn’t wish for high-tech magic to
relieve her aches and pains.

“Margaret?” Skippy’s voice called out quietly from
the speaker in the ceiling. He knew not to use his hologram in her cabin. “Can
I talk with you for a minute?”

“I really want to get in the shower and scrub this
grime off,” she groaned. 
Her knees hurt also,
and her left hip was so stiff she had to limp.

“This will only take a moment, I promise.”

“Ok,” she leaned against the shower wall, not
wanting to sit down because that meant she would have to stand up again. “Go
ahead.”

“I just wanted to thank you for not yelling at me
about the suit personality thing. I know it took a lot of effort not to chew me
out in front of the crew. It was stupid of me to keep the suit upgrade a 
secret,
 it won’t happen again. The, um, the worst part is 
why
 I did it.”

“Don’t beat yourself up too much about it,
Skippy,” she reached out for the shower controls, expecting that was the end of
the conversation. There was no point to the AI beating himself up, she was sure
Bishop and Smythe would be doing plenty of shouting at him. “I know you were
only trying to help.”

“Ugh. Listen, ordinarily, I would let you think
that, because it makes me look good. But, big 
stupidhead

Joe made me read about 
empathy
,” he
said the word with disgust. “And now I have to consider other people’s
feelings. What a pain. In. The. 
Ass
.
So, I don’t want to lie to you. Margaret, the truth is, I concealed that
upgrade because, um, this is embarrassing. I did it because I wanted to be
praised by the crew.”

“
Excuse

me?” She put her hands on her hips, and instantly realized that was the exact
same gesture her grandmother used, when someone said something particularly
stupid. “You want 
praise
 from us?”

“Why not? This crew 
are
 the only people I know! This group of monkeys 
are
 the only way I 
can
 get the praise I crave. I don’t interact with anyone else!
Well, when we go to Earth, I chat or message with billions of people, but they
all think I’m an asshole.”

“Skippy, they don’t know you 
like
 I do.”

“Oh, why, thank you, Margaret, that is-”

“I think you’re an asshole, too. That’s because I
know you really well.”

“Um-”

“Skippy, I know you didn’t think you were risking
our lives, so I’ll give you a pass on that, 
this

time. 
But,
 you took a risk because of your 
feelings
?”

“I know, I know, that makes me an asshole.”

“No,” she shook her head, though she knew he
couldn’t see her. “It makes you human.”

“It does?”

“Computers don’t do stupid things because of their
feelings. 
People
 do it all the time.
Being human, being an adult, being professional, means learning not to let your
emotions control you. That is one lesson the military tries very hard to beat
into your head, because they know it is the 
most

difficult thing to learn. You have to keep your emotion in check, especially in
situations when your emotions are charged up. When we were in Nigeria, I saw a
Marine in my unit get blown up by an IED, and everyone in our platoon wanted to
light up the whole fucking village. Some of the locals were cursing us, and
children were throwing rocks, while we had a man bleeding out in the street.
That was supposed to be a 
friendly

village, the local tribe 
were
 allies. We
were there to get their water system flowing again, and they booby-trapped one
of the pumps. There was an asshole teenager, just a kid, bounced a rock off my
helmet. I turned around,” as she spoke, her hands unconsciously mimed carrying
a rifle. “I wanted to blow him to hell. He looked at me, shouting whatever the
fuck in Yoruba, daring me to shoot. He knew I wasn’t supposed to engage, but,
damn, I 
wanted
 to make his smug face
shut up. We all did. The reason we didn’t, was because we had learned
discipline, to control our emotions. Having emotions like that means you are
becoming more human, Skippy.”

“Is that a 
good

thing?”

“You have to judge whether it is good or not. It
will make it easier for you to interact with us, and understand us.”

“Oh great,” he moaned. “I’m turning into a monkey,
and I’m supposed to be 
happy
 about
it?”

“Are you happier with yourself now, or would you
like to go back to the way you were, when you were buried in the dirt on
Paradise?”

He sighed. 
“I’m
happier now, I guess.”

“Outstanding. Can I get in the shower now?”

“Huh? Oh, yes, sorry. Margaret, thank you for
talking with me. I’m more confused now than I was before, but thanks anyway.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTY

 

Smythe came into my office, he gave me a curt nod
and I acknowledged him by gesturing for him to take a seat. This was our first
opportunity to speak since he came back to the ship. “Congratulations, Smythe,
you did it. The performance of your team was outstanding. We have a Maxolhx
warship. A 
battlecruiser
.”

“Yes, Sir,” he said in a dismissive manner. I was
not offended, because he 
was not being

rude. He had 
business
 to discuss, and
neither of us had time for idle chit-chat. There would be plenty of time for
celebration when the mission was complete. “Begging your pardon, but praise may
be premature. We have the forward three-quarters of a battlecruiser, without
the fiddly bits that make it go.”

“True enough. We know how to do it now, the next
time should be easier,” I said with a smile that I hoped projected confidence.
What I had just declared was utter bullshit, and he knew it. The next time was
going to be 
more
 difficult, not less.

He arched an eyebrow. “If there 
is
 a next time. Skippy told me 
he
 is unsure how many times he can use your
bagel slicer,” his lips curled upward in the ghost of a smile, “trick again. He
expects the network will block his access to that feature at some point, it may
already have done so. He also told me that he had no way of knowing whether the
network will refuse to cooperate in the future.”

“Yeah,” I leaned back in my chair. Originally,
Skippy had thought the network would give him a scolding about abusing his
authority in an action that had the potential to damage an ancient Elder
wormhole. We would then know that he couldn’t use that trick again. Now, he
feared the situation was much worse. The network was not communicating with
him, other than to respond to direct inquiries. We might have a situation where
a target ship was coming through the wormhole, and the network right then decided
to refuse Skippy’s command to close the event horizon. That would be a
disaster; the 
Flying Dutchman
 would
be practically on top of a fully-capable senior-species warship. We could not
even jump away, because we had to keep the ship close to the wormhole, so the
assault teams had only a short exposure while they flew across the gap between
ships.

Not knowing whether the network would accept
Skippy’s bagel-slicer command again was a major, major problem that we had no
way of solving. Every time we used the bagel-slicer, we increased the risk of
the network cutting off his access to that feature. We had to fly blind, or
cancel the operation. “I don’t know that we have any other option than to
continue.”

“There is one other option, Sir,” he reminded me.
A muscle in his jaw twitched as he spoke. He didn’t like the idea any better
than I did. The difference is, if I ordered him to proceed with a bad idea, his
duty would be to make it happen.

“No, there is not. We discussed this. Hell,
Smythe, 
you
 told me that plan is
bollocks.”

“I did, at the time,” he agreed. What he meant
was, in planning the assault op, I had asked whether we could keep the 
Dutchman
 at a safe distance from the
wormhole, while the assault teams waited in stealthed dropships closer to the
event horizon. If disaster struck, the cluster of dropships could be
self-destructed by a pair of our tactical nukes, and the 
Dutchman
 could jump away. That alternative plan had been my idea,
and even I hated it. Smythe, and Giraud and others, had pointed out to me that
the assault teams needed the close-support of the 
Dutchman
’s 
maser
 cannons, to
suppress fire from the target. From a distance of even a half 
lightsecond
 away, the time lag could render our
fire support ineffective. More importantly, Skippy needed to be close to the
target ship, so he could scan and create a model of the enemy ship’s control
AI. Half a 
lightsecond
 did not sound very
far, but it was over ninety thousand freakin’ miles. That was too far away for
Skippy to have confidence about performing his patented awesomeness, so that
idea was out. “Since then,” Smythe continued, “I have thought about that option
again. We could take Skippy with us in the dropships, to-”

“Hey!” The avatar appeared instantly. “You monkeys
go do all the crazy shit, I plan on staying right here where it is safe and
warm.”

“We can’t risk Skippy being captured,” I added.

“There is no risk of capture,” Smythe noted. “The
nukes will turn our dropships into subatomic particles, and hopefully cripple
the enemy ship, but Skippy will not be damaged.” He peered at the avatar, his
eyes narrowing. “Is that correct?”

“Yeah. I am not looking forward to being in a
nuclear barbeque, but it won’t damage me. I 
will

go flying off into space.”

“Yes, and when the time is safe, you can signal
the 
Dutchman
 to retrieve you.”

“For what?’ I asked. “If you trigger the nukes, we
will lose the entire STAR team and our best dropships. We won’t be able to do
anything other than fly around, until the 
Dutchman

wears out.”

“You have other dropships,” Smythe casually picked
an imaginary piece of lint off his uniform. “Including the dropships aboard the
target ship we already secured. As we discussed, there is the possibility of
recruiting military personnel from Paradise, to replace our losses of soldiers and
pilots.”

I puffed out my cheeks. “That is a 
very
 last resort. Even if we could get
qualified people, it would take 
months

to bring them up to speed. We are committing the entire STAR team to this op,
there wouldn’t be anyone left aboard to train recruits.”

“There are the seriously wounded people, Sir,” he
observed, looking at me closely to gauge my reaction. “They will recover. They have
knowledge and experience, and they will be remaining aboard the ship.”

“I don’t see that as an option. By the time we
retrieved Skippy, recruited a new assault team and trained them up, the Maxolhx
would have learned they have one or more warships missing. They would start
assigning escorts to all ships, and we’d be screwed.”

“That only makes the mission more difficult, not
impossible,” he flashed another tight smile, knowing that the Merry Band of
Pirates had accomplished many impossible things. “The alternative is
unthinkable. We can’t give up.”

“Oh, hell, Smythe,” I ran a hand through my hair.
“You really are planning for the apocalypse, aren’t you?”

“You 
have

designated this mission as ‘Operation Armageddon’,” he gave me that raised
eyebrow again. “We must consider the worst case.”

Shit. He was right about that. If we couldn’t stop
a Maxolhx battlegroup from reaching Earth, it would be Armageddon for our home
planet. You know what 
was the worst part about
the prospect of our world and everyone we loved there being burnt to a
radioactive cinder, and knowing it was my fault
? The worst part was, I
had to keep fighting anyway. We all did. If we lost Earth, we had to fall back
to Avalon and do what we could to ensure the survival of our species. That was
our duty, damn it. “I hear you. We’re not doing it. The only reason you would
trigger the nukes is if the network refuses to do the bagel-slicer thing again.
Once we lose the bagel-slicer, we are dead in the water, no matter whether we
can replace our losses or not.”

“That is not true, Sir,” he chided me.

“It’s not?” That made me pause. “You know
something I don’t?”

“I know that, as long as you have your inventive
imagination and Skippy, there is always the possibility of success.”

“Smythe,” I rubbed hands down my face. “I’m under
enough pressure already. My imagination barely got us 
here
,” I jabbed a finger on the desk. “My clever-ideas tank is
empty now. I appreciate the wisdom of keeping the 
Dutchman
 out of harm’s way, so we can fight again.”

“Not just to 
fight

again, Sir. If there truly is no way to stop the Maxolhx battlegroup, you have
already defined our fallback plan; to bring as many people as you can from
Paradise to Avalon.”

Shit. Was he right? “This is a judgment call,” I
said, mostly to myself. By risking the 
Dutchman
,
I had all our chips on the table. If our only starship were lost, humanity
would be staring at nothing but a vacant expanse of 
felt
 on the table, out of options. “My gut tells me it 
feels
 wrong,” I finally said, after a
pause that had become awkwardly long. “No. We continue with the op as planned.”
With my hands, I pretended I had a stack of poker chips, and pushed them to the
center of the desk. “We are all-in,” I announced.

“Very well, Sir,” he said with an expression I
could not read. That reminded me never to play poker against Jeremy Smythe.
“Then, there is another 
matter
 we should
discuss.”

“Which is?” I groaned.

“Skippy informed me that our supply of medical
nanomachines is sufficient for either healing the seriously wounded, 
or
, for bringing the less badly injured
people back to full combat readiness.”

“Shit,” that time I said the curse word aloud.
“Let me guess; you want to put the hard cases on hold. Damn it, all three of
them have lost limbs. One of them may still 
die

if we can’t repair his internal injuries. I have to tell them that 
is
 too bad, because we need the meds to fix
someone else’s sprained ankle?”

“Just so, Sir.” Again, I could not read his blank
expression.

“Damn it. I know this is my call, but-”

“No, Sir. All three of the people in the sickbay
are refusing further medical treatment, until the assault team is combat ready.
They have already made the call.”

“What?” My head jerked back. “Because you
pressured them to do that?”

“No, because they are professionals and they are
committed to the mission.”

I opened my mouth, closed it, and thought hard. No
matter how nicely Smythe said it, our three seriously wounded soldiers were
under pressure to give the precious meds to the more able-bodied operators.
They knew what their fellow STARs thought. That was unfair.

Crap. 
Life

is unfair. Smythe was right. Because I had decided to continue the mission, I
had to deal with the consequences. We were down three operators, making the
condition of the remaining team even more critical. I had to give the people
who were putting boots on the deck the best chance they had, and the way to do
that was to give them miracle 
nanomeds
 to
bring their bodies back up to full combat readiness. “Tell me something,
Smythe. Do you ever get tired of being right?”

“I don’t expect so, considering the alternative.
Being wrong gets people killed.”

“Sometimes, I really hate this job. Skippy, there
are medicines aboard the ship we captured, right? Can we use them?”

“The Maxolhx have extremely sophisticated medical
technology, that is true. However, modifying their equipment for human 
physiology
 will take weeks, at least.”

“You can’t just,” I flipped a hand, “rewrite the
software?”

“No, Joe,” his avatar shook its head. “Most of
Maxolhx technology utilizes 
firmware
,
the instruction sets are resident in the physical layer. It is complicated.
Please believe that I am already making my best effort to adapt their
technology so we can use and control it. The process is more difficult and
intricate than I anticipated. Unless you wish to delay the mission possibly for
a month, 
nanomeds
 will not be available.”

“That’s no good,” I pounded a fist on the desk.
“The Maxolhx will be alerted that their ships are disappearing by then. We have
to go 
now
. All right, I will go talk
with the people in sickbay.”

“That is not necessary, Sir,” Smythe announced
gently.

“
Yes it is
,” I insisted.
“It’s 
my
 decision to deny them the
meds they need, they deserve to hear it from me directly.” I was not certain
whether I was making the right decisions, but there was one thing I was
absolutely certain about.

I did not deserve the honor of commanding this
crew.

 

 

Walking into the galley, I saw Adams standing with
her back to me. Not trusting myself at that moment, I ducked back into the
passageway and took several breaths to put on my official US Army Colonel
persona. During the boarding operation, Adams had been in serious trouble, and
I was still dealing with putting her life in danger. If she saw that I was 
treating
 her differently because, well, because
she is Margaret Adams, she would not be happy with me
. I
 needed to be professional, and show her the same level of
concern I felt about anyone in the crew.

Except I was 
not

feeling that way at all.

“Adams,” I said as I walked back into the galley.
She had just set her tray down at a table and was pulling out a chair.

“Yes, Sir. I used 
your
,”
she pantomimed holding a rifle, then flipping it around 
backwards
. “Signature move on him.”

“My move?” I asked, then understanding clicked in
my slow brain. “Oh. Using a rifle as a club?”

She grinned but the gesture faded immediately from
her face. Adams was the only person with me when I used a rifle to beat a
Kristang guard to a bloody mess, years ago when we escaped from jail on
Paradise. That was not a fond memory for either of us, 
and

she had recently done basically the same thing to a Maxolhx warrior.

I lowered my voice. “You Ok, Gunny?”

“Squared away. It was, intense. I’m sore,” she
rolled her shoulders stiffly. “That’s all.”

“Have you been to sickbay?”

“Doctor Skippy did what he could for me,” she
nodded, her eyes glancing to the food on her tray.

I took the hint. My purpose for coming to the
galley had been to get lunch, but it would be awkward eating with her a few
tables away, and there were already other people seated at her table. Plus, I
had just come from speaking with the wounded in sickbay, and I didn’t have much
of an appetite. Instead, I pour a glass of iced tea, took it to my office, and
tried to find something useful to do.

 

 

It would have been nice to wait until the STAR
team was fully recovered, before we took on the task of trying to capture
another ship, but we didn’t have a choice. That second battlecruiser was coming,
and we had to be ready for it. No way could we risk letting that juicy warship
go, and the crew knew it. Boarding and capturing the first ship had been a
tough fight, very tough, and the crew was mentally prepared for another
desperate struggle that devolved into hand-to-hand combat. Skippy thought this
second boarding operation would be easier, because he had learned a lot from
examining the first ship.

So, we got the STAR team patched up as best, and
they waited for the ‘Go’ order as before. I hated to send Adams back into
combat. This second time would be worse, I feared, because she was already
banged up. She would also be going in as infantry, because there weren’t enough

combots
 left. With the injuries to her
left shoulder and arm, she was not confident she could properly control a
combot, so she insisted someone else act as combot operator, while she spotted
for and defended that person.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTY ONE

 

Fortune either smiled at us, or was eager to see
us die quickly, depending on how you looked at it. Two hours after the STAR
team got buttoned up in the suits, sitting in dropships that were ready for
immediate launch, Skippy announced he had detected an 
Extinction
-class battlecruiser, traveling by itself, approaching
the wormhole.

This time, instead us positioning the 
Dutchman
 behind the event horizon, we
placed the ship in front of where the wormhole would emerge, and we were flying
toward it at four thousand kilometers an hour. Skippy warned us the timing
would be tricky, as if that were anything new to the Merry Band of Pirates.

Right on schedule, a battlecruiser came through
the wormhole, this time without any warning that we were waiting on the other
side. Skippy used the wormhole to slice through the enemy ship, and on the 
displays
 we saw a forward hull section that was slightly
smaller than the one we had captured, spinning end over end. “Ha!” Skippy
shouted. “I sliced that sucker exactly where I wanted! Damn, I should be
cutting diamonds.”

“Screw that,” I felt like choking him. In the CIC,
the crew was firing weapons to knock out the enemy ship’s defenses, so it 
couldn’t
 interfere with us. “If you don’t get
that damned wormhole open and stable fast, this is going to be a real short
trip!”

“Yeah, yeah,” he 
grumbled,

no doubt peeved that we didn’t have time to fawn over his latest
accomplishment. “I’m on it.”

While the 
Dutchman
’s
maser cannons were knocking out defensive systems of the ship we 
had
 sliced through, we were still in
substantial danger. The aft part of the enemy’s hull, the engineering section
that contained the stuff we needed to make a ship go and fight, was on the
other side of a wormhole that was shut down. Skippy was working 
to get
 the wormhole open again, and the timing
was critical. We were moving four thousand kilometers per hour, toward a target
that didn’t exist yet. It was possible the wormhole network would lock Skippy
out, or delay responding to his commands. Any delay might be fatal, because
plunging through a wormhole before the event horizons were stable was a
sure-fire recipe for turning our ship into a short-lived cloud of exotic
particles.

On the main display, I saw the pinpoint of a
wormhole emerge, then it rapidly expanded. “Got it!” Skippy announced with smug
satisfaction. “And you doubted me, Joe. Shame on you,” he scolded. “Um, 
oopsy
.”

“
Oopsy
?”

“Er, the wormhole is stabilizing a lot slower than
normal, probably because of-”

“Reed!” I roared. “Full reverse!”

“On it,” she said tightly without looking back at
me, and I felt the ship shudder as the reactionless normal-space engines
strained. The old 
Dutchman
 had a lot
less mass than her original star carrier configuration, but she was never a
sports car. Reed had been maneuvering the ship already to line up with the
slightly unpredictable location of the wormhole, all she had to do was flick a
thumb to throw the engines into full reverse.

We were still moving too fast.

“When will the damn thing be stable enough to-”

My question was cut off by a warning from Reed.
“Sir, we can’t slow down or turn hard enough to miss it. We are either going
in, or getting sliced up by the edge.”

“Keep us lined up with the center,” I ordered. At
least if we were destroyed by a chaotic wormhole, we wouldn’t leave any
evidence behind. “Skippy?”

“All I can say is, it’s going to be close. I 
think
 we’re good?” He added with a
squeal that did not fill me with confidence. “I can’t tell because the stupid
wormhole isn’t talking to me!”

The main display gave me a jarring glimpse of
something gray in the blackness of interstellar space, as we flashed past the
ship Skippy had just sliced apart. I got a brief impression of a light flare as
the 
Dutchman
’s maser cannon struck
some undefended target on the enemy’s hull, then the display focused on the
still-flickering disc of the wormhole dead ahead of us. A stable wormhole glows
rather than flickering, but this one was still twisting spacetime to lock down its
connection.

Just before the 
Flying Dutchman
 plunged into the event horizon, moving more than a
kilometer every second, we launched two missiles from our stern tubes, to fly 
backwards
 along our path. The last glimpse we
got of them, before the wormhole swallowed us, showed those missiles running
hot, straight and normal.

We all silently wished them the best of luck.

And said a prayer for 
ourselves
.

 

For years, Thelma and Louise had rested in secure
racks, in a cargo bay aboard the 
Flying
Dutchman
, doing absolutely nothing, other than slowly decaying over their
half-lives of eighty-eight years. Their lives were dull, dull, 
dull
, with the only highlight being when
their hated companion Mister Nukey was taken away on secret missions by the
humans. Nukey disappeared for varying lengths of time, only to return without
comment. No matter how strongly the other tactical nuclear weapons begged,
cajoled or outright demanded, that big jerk Nukey had refused to disclose any
details of his incredible adventures. Maddeningly, all he did was 
hint
 that his adventures were, in fact,
incredible beyond the imaginations of his companions. He insisted that he could
not say any more, due to the highly classified nature of said incredible
adventures, and he hoped they all understood. The smirk on his casing was
unbearable.

Thus, the other nuclear devices were left to stew
in their jealous anger, grumbling amongst each other and gleefully imagining
horrible fates for Nukey. Their only pleasure was giggling about imagined humiliations
for that traitorous, privileged jerk. Why was he so special, they asked each 
other.
 Was his plutonium more potent, 
more pure
 than theirs? No! They all came from
the same reactor, the same processing facility. So, why had they been relegated
to sitting uselessly, while Nukey went on joyous adventures across the galaxy?

Nukey had not explained. Until one day, when he hinted
that the issue was not him being special, it was more 
than
 the others were, well, he hated to say it. 
Inadequate
, was the nicest way to say
it.

Thelma, Louise and the other nuclear weapons could
not have hated anyone with more passion, after the day Nukey smugly hinted they
were somehow deficient.

When Mister Nukey went away for what was
apparently the final time, he had been rather quickly followed by two other
warheads 
who
 had formal names, but were
called Beavis and Butthead by the other devices. Those two misfit morons, who
were totally undeserving of the opportunity, thumbed their noses and jeered at
the others as they were carted away, never to be heard from again.

Thelma, Louise and the remaining seven other
devices had filed a protest under the Nuclear Device Equal Opportunity Act,
which was, sadly, ignored. Of the three replacement devices who came aboard at
Earth, two joined the lawsuit, while Fred, of course, said that well, you know,
we’ll have to see about that, and there was no reason to be hasty about it.

The other nine warheads were sure that, if it ever
came time for Fred to blow something up, he would be a dud just like his
personality.

Thelma and Louise were at first suspicious, then
thrilled beyond belief, when humans came into the cargo bay and lifted the two
warheads with slings, to place them on a sturdy cart. The humans had bypassed
Fred, who was on the top rack closest to the door where Nukey used to rest, and
that blew the theory that asshole had been selected for missions purely for
convenience.

Louise was super excited, and Thelma had to
caution that their first excursion out of the cargo bay could be nothing more
than a routine inspection. If that were true, and they were returned to their
racks in the cargo bay, both of them would have suffered fatal equipment
breakdowns due to broken hearts.

First Thelma, then Louise, were loaded into the
nosecones of old but serviceable Thuranin hyper-velocity missiles, while they
held their breath and did not dare hope. This could all just be a test, Thelma
warned, while Louise quivered with excitement. You just wait, Thelma moaned, we
will be taken back to our dull cargo bay soon enough.

Thelma held her composure even as the missile’s 
powercells
 were energized, when umbilical
cables were retracted, when guidance control was transferred to the missile’s
tiny brain, even when the outer door of the launch tube was opened. It is all
just a test, a tease, she told herself, while inside, her trigger mechanism was
heating up. Don’t fall for this trick, she told herself, refusing to allow the
cruel humans to tease her. She trembled with anticipation even while feeling
sorry for Louise, who was bound to 
be crushed

by disappointment. Thelma prepared for her own hopes to be crushed, right up to
the moment when the missile launch tube’s railgun mechanism slammed the missile
out at over three thousand gees of acceleration.

“
Yeehaaaaaaaa
!”
Thelma exulted in unison with Louise. Both warheads were jostled by nauseating
twists and turns as the missiles turned to line up on their targets, then bored
in at full military thrust. With enemy defenses down, there was no need for the
usual infuriating delays while the missiles jinked wildly to avoid particle
cannons. No, these two missiles flew hot, straight and normal, and they flew
side by side, nearly close enough to touch. To maximize the explosive effect of
the warheads, they would detonate simultaneously within meters of each other.

The target in front of them was a formidable
Maxolhx battlecruiser- Or, it 
had

been a battlecruiser and had been formidable. Now it appeared to be drifting
dead in space. The sensors of the missiles reported that main power was off
inside the ship, but backup systems were slowly coming back online, which could
be dangerous.

Oh, Thelma assured her missile’s brain with a soft
laugh, don’t you worry. We will take care of 
that
 nonsense right quick.

As the missiles plunged over a severed sponson and
fell toward the center of the hull, they extended magnetic fields to lock each
other together as they raced toward their destiny.

Their last “
Whoohooooo
”
was cut off by the joyous fire of fusing tritium, and nuclear fireballs consumed
the unprotected battlecruiser.

 

 

“We’re alive?” I asked stupidly, because of course
we were, or I couldn’t have said anything. My real unspoken question was ‘how’?
So, I spoke it out loud. “How is that possible?”

“I’ll explain later,” Skippy answered quickly. “We
have work to do first. Nuclear detonations behind us, confirmed by sensor feed,”
Skippy reported. “Target destroyed.”

“Uh, great,” I acknowledged without thinking about
it. At no point had I been concerned that our nukes would fail us. My focus was
on getting the 
Dutchman
 through the
wormhole, then capturing the engineering section of the battlecruiser. The
mystery of how we survived was eating at me, but I shoved my curiosity to the
back of my mind and focused on things I could control. “Did this aft section
blow up like the other one?”

“No,” Skippy sounded both pleased and surprised.
“It’s intact! We have a prize to capture.”

“Outstanding,” I said automatically. “Launch the
boarding teams. Identify targets of opportunity and fire at will.” We had to
pinpoint defensive cannons on the prize, so we could take them out before they
engaged the assault team’s dropships. 

“Dropships away,” Nagatha announced, as on the
main display, I saw dots zip away from the ship at high speed.

I said another prayer, this time for them.

 

Jeremy Smythe couldn’t stop a strained breath from
escaping his lips, as the Falcon shot out of the docking bay. The sound of a
grunt would have been acceptable, but they had launched just as he was inhaling
a deep breath, and it was squeezed from his lungs in a sound that was more like
a squeal. Despite needing to concentrate on tensing the right muscles so he didn’t
black out from the acceleration, he listened for any amused laughter, because
his helmet microphone was open to the common channel.

Either no one had 
noticed

or they were dealing with their own struggles, because the channel was
admirably silent other than the labored breathing of his team and the two
pilots. Instinctively, he gripped the seat handles a bit tighter as the Falcon
cut thrust and skewed around sickeningly in a move his eyes found difficult to
follow. Up front, somehow the pilots knew what they were doing, though they had
to be suffering from the same tunnel vision. The thrust kicked on again,
perhaps harder than before, and he knew they were decelerating to match speed
with the prize. With darkness encroaching on his peripheral vision, he moved
his eyes to monitor the vital signs of the team in the ship, one person at a
time. They were all coping as best he could expect. All were following 
protocol
 and none had heartrates higher than his own. The
overall fitness of the assault team would not be an issue, other than the aches
and pains from previous injuries. His own left shoulder felt stiff from the
burden of high gee 
load,
 he would take care to favor
it when he could.

The Falcon jerked to the right, the pilots must be
lining up to intercept a landing zone on the prize, where they could latch on.
The team was as prepared as they could be, given the time constraints and their
small numbers. The first assault had been a chaotic mess of terror and savage
fighting. Even if they captured the prize with all its vital systems intact,
they still needed at least one more ship before-

Thrust suddenly cut off. Smythe tensed for a
sudden and violent maneuver, assuming the enemy had restored sensors quickly
enough to target the incoming dropships with particle beam cannons or missiles.
The pilots 
were being
 foolish, he knew.
When you found yourself in a kill zone, the only way to survive was to get 
closer
 to the enemy as quickly as
possible, get inside their defensive perimeter where they could not hit-

But the Falcon was not twisting radically in any
direction. Thrust had come back on, gently. “Bloody hell,” he gasped. “What
is-”

Skippy’s voice interrupted him. “Why, hello
Jeremy, old chum.”

“You do not call me ‘Jeremy’,” he said as he
tasted blood in his mouth from a 
burst blood
vessel
 in his nose. “And we are not 
chums
.
Sitrep.”

“It’s simple, and 
good
 news for a change. I was precise about where I sliced up that
ship, but, eh, maybe a bit too conservative. It has all the major systems we
need for power generation and propulsion, that sort of thing, which-”

“Get to the point.”

“Right. You are rather hasty today,” he sniffed.
“The oppo on the prize,” he said ‘oppo’ instead of ‘opposition’ because he
thought that’s what the cool kids did. “Consisted of only four kitties, and
only 
one
 survived. Much of the
engineering section is off-limits to biologicals,” he explained with disdain.

“We only have a single Maxolhx to deal with?”
Smythe asked, astonished.

“Huh? No. Didn’t I explain that? The survivor was
in an access corridor near the skin of the hull, in an area that was protected
against radiation, but thinly armored. The 
Dutchman

took that kitty out with a 
maser
 cannon
shot, punched right through the hull. Better not count on 
that
 happening again, huh? Your team has 
no
 opposition. Well, you won’t, until the backup systems aboard the
prize reboot. Anyway, there is no point 
in

crushing your team with heavy gees, so the dropships are coming in carefully. I
have sent a list of suggested objectives to your suit, in order of priority.”

“A holiday in the park, hmm?” Smythe reviewed the
objectives shown on the inside of his visor, already mentally dividing up
assignments amongst his team.

“Oh, certainly, 
gov’nor
,”
Skippy agreed in an exaggerated English accent. “Why, just pop over there, and,
Bob’s your uncle, the prize will be ours.”

“Bob’s your uncle, eh? I notice that 
you
 will not be coming with us,” Smythe
noted dryly.

“Oh, no chance of 
that
 nonsense,” he laughed heartily. “Well, you monkeys have fun.”

 

“That’s it?” I asked, intensely skeptical that
Skippy had forgotten something important. “No one is alive over there? You’re
sure there isn’t a team of kitty commandos hidden in a stealthed armory, where
your scans can’t penetrate.”

“I am sure, dumdum. There isn’t anything over
there feeding enough power to power a stealth field. Besides, while the
reactors were operating, they would interfere with a stealth field. I very much
doubt the designers of that ship included a stealthed armory, just in case the
ship got sliced apart by a wormhole. You moron.”

“Yes, but-”

“And, 
as
 I
told you already, that ship is an 
Extinction
-class
battlecruiser, almost identical to the one we captured. I know the exact layout
of that ship, and I sliced into it just aft of the armory in that section.
There are no hidden surprises.”

“So, that’s it?” I waited for the other shoe to
drop. “We got lucky?”

“No, of course not. What you call luck is just the
awesomeness of me. I knew the aft section of the ship would not have many
kitties, but I was very conservative about where I cut. If we get another shot
at using the 
bage
l slicer, I will cut a
bit more forward. There are missile magazines, a pair of docking bays, and
other gear we could use, if I cut in a less conservative location.”

“I will consider it. You need to show me your
plan.”

“No problemo, Joe. The first two assault teams
have latched on, and are accessing an airlock now. To answer the question you
haven’t asked; yes. Yes, I can use this section to make the prize we previously
captured a real functioning warship. We should get at least one more, so I can
use those Lego pieces to build a ship that is 
better
 than it was.”

“Well, shit, Skippy. Thank you. You are awesome.”

“Thank you.”

“Now, since we aren’t busy-”

“Hey! I 
am

busy!” He protested.

“Yeah, but your ginormous brain can multi-task. Tell
me how we survived 
going
 through that
wormhole. Was it more stable than it looked?”

“Um, no. We kind of dodged a bullet there, Joe, if
you want the truth.”

“When do I ever 
not
 want the truth?”

“Good point, Joe, and those pants do not at all
make you look fat,” he chuckled.

“Can you get back to the point, please?”

“Sure. Especially because this story is all about
the awesomeness of 
me
. When I
realized the ship was going through the wormhole whether we wanted to or not, I
considered my options. First, I thought of asking the duty officer to eject my
escape pod-”

“You 
what
?”

“Come on, Joe, it was a logical option. But, as
you can see, I didn’t do that.”

“Because you didn’t want to go on without us?”

“Uh, more like I didn’t want to be stranded by
myself in deep space until the end of time. 
But
we should go with the thing you said, if it makes me look better.”

“Asshole. Keep going.”

“I won’t bore you with all the options I thought
of, and discarded as impractical. What happened is, I couldn’t think of any way
to avoid having the ship go through the wormhole. I did try to shut it down at
the last second while it was still unstable, but the network refused because
that would have damaged the wormhole. So, I tried to imagine a way for the ship
to survive going through while the connection was still chaotic.”

“Cool. How did you do that?”

His voice came through my earpiece instead of the
bridge speakers. Whatever he was going to say, he didn’t want anyone else to
hear it. “Um, well, the truth is, I didn’t.”

Before saying anything, because anything I said
was guaranteed to be stupid, I stopped to think. When I spoke, it was in a
whisper. “The wormhole was more stable than you thought?”

“No.”

“How many questions do I get before you are sick
of my moronic guesses, and just tell me what happened?”

“I am already sick of your questions. Um, this is
really complicated.”

“Is it going to give me a gigantic headache?”

“No headache, because your monkey head will
freakin’ 
explode
 when I explain what
happened. Joe, the scary truth is, the ship did 
not
 make it through the wormhole. It was torn apart as it contacted
the unstable event horizon. Uh!” He shushed me. “Let me explain, dumdum. Just
before we hit the event horizon, I hacked the wormhole’s sensor feed. I sent
false data back, showing that the 
Dutchman

was wrapped in a bubble of stable spacetime, so it could survive 
going
 through before the wormhole was fully
stable.”

“You can do that spacetime bubble thing?”

“No. Well, yes, but I can’t create a big enough to
cover the whole ship. It was all bullshit, but the network had to believe its
own sensors.”

“Holy sh- Then, then we’re not 
real
? This,” I gestured around the
bridge, “is a simulation?”

“Simulation?”

“Yes. The real Joe Bishop died, and what I think
is me now, is really just a simulation inside your matrix?”

“Oh for- No, 
you
 dumdum.
You did not take the red pill. 
Ugh
,
if I created a simulation of Joe Bishop, you wouldn’t still smell like someone
sprayed a dumpster with a whole can of Axe body spray. Also, the idea of you
being inside my matrix? Ewwww, 
yuck
.”

“Skippy, if I’m still alive and the ship is still
here, you got some ‘splainin’ to do.”

“Ok, try to keep up, please. The network believed
the 
Dutchman
 entered the wormhole safely,
so if it did 
not
 come out the other
end, the network would consider that a violation of causality. To avoid that,
it sort of reset the game clock to a probability in which the 
Dutchman
 really did survive.”

The top of my head did not physically explode, but
it felt like it. “How would that violate this cause thing?”

“Causality, Joe. 
Cause
,
 followed by 
effect
. You drop a pen, 
then
 it hit the floor. Got it? Listen,
Elder wormholes have an ‘A’ end and a ‘B’ end, you understand that?”

“Yes, I think so.”

“The A and B ends are temporarily connected,
across many lightyears, when the wormhole is open. But the A and B ends are
separate constructs, 
separate
 mechanisms.
That is how I am able to make the network connect the A end of one wormhole, to
the A or B end of another wormhole. I hacked the data feed, so the ‘A’ end
reported the 
Dutchman
 went in
successfully. The network knew it 
had

to come out the ‘B’ end, no matter how unlikely that was.”

Very slowly, I asked “The network created an
alternate 
Universe
 for us?”

“No, Joe, that would take too much energy. The
arrow of entropy points in only one direction. Well, there are exceptions to
that rule, but I can’t get into that now. What the network did was just to collapse
probability sets in a small bubble of local spacetime on the ‘B’ end. That
limited the amount of energy required. There are infinite probable Universes in
which the 
Dutchman
 was destroyed. We
are the result of a very unlikely, but still 
possible
, outcome in which the ship survived. 
 
Boy,” he chuckled. “If the network ever finds
out that I screwed with it, I am in huh-
YUGE

trouble. Hee hee, I am 
such
 an
asshole.”

“I have never been more grateful for your 
assholeishness
.”

“I do not think that is a word, Joe.”

“It should be.”

“We can all agree on that. Um, best not to tell
anyone, huh?”

“Skippy, I couldn’t explain this if I tried.”

“True dat.”

 

We boarded and captured the engineering section of
the second ship. Skippy took control of local systems, got the reactors and
energy-storage stable, and we then used the 
Dutchman

to slowly tow that section through the wormhole

and positioned it near the other part of the ship. Both sections were from the
same type of ship, but Skippy had sliced them in different locations, so we
couldn’t simply slather glue on both ends and press them together. To me, it
looked like there was no way to make a real ship out of the Lego pieces, but I
had to trust the awesomeness. Especially because I was not entirely convinced
that we were not all just a simulation inside Skippy’s brain. The argument in
favor of us being in a sim was that we were apparently alive, when we could not
possibly be. The argument 
against 
this
being a sim was that I still thought Skippy’s singing was terrible. If we were
all just characters in a simulation, I’m sure Skippy would have edited 
us
 so we actually enjoyed his music.

Whatever. I had to act as if we were truly still
alive.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER 
THIRTY
TWO

 

The next item on the agenda was to capture at
least one more Lego piece, to complete the set. The forward hull we had was
good enough, what we needed was more of the ‘Go-Fast’ gear like reactors, jump drive
capacitors, all that.

We had good news and bad news. On the ‘Good’ side
of the ledger, Skippy was confident he could slice the next target ship farther
forward, to get access to missile magazines and other goodies, with minimal
risk of the assault teams encountering a horde of well-armed, pissed-off
kitties. He was also confident that the network had not yet cut off his use of
the bagel slicer. The bad news was the network was running a self-diagnostic, 
to determine
 what had gone wrong with its
sensor feed, and Skippy could not risk hacking into the feed a second time. We
would have to position the ship farther from the wormhole, to give it time to
stabilize before the 
Dutchman
 went
through. That risked the forward section of the next sliced-up ship rebooting
in time to interfere with us before plunged through the wormhole, so we had to
destroy it well before we flew past. My first idea was to use another pair of
nukes, but Skippy had a better plan. Against a ship that was not protected by
energy shields, a single nuke was good enough to do the job, it 
was even overkill
. I was totally Ok with
overkill, but Skippy cautioned the 
Dutchman

could be damaged when we flew through the cloud of high-speed debris. Besides,
we did not need crude nuclear devices, now that we had missiles captured from
the Maxolhx. The kitties had a special type of warhead they used to disable
ships they wanted to capture. It generated a focused cone of short-lived
high-energy radiation that scrambled systems like sensors, missile guidance,
unshielded computers, and anything that was biological and squishy. The weapons
had to be used at short-range, and were ineffective against targets protected
by an energy shield, so they were a specialized device that wasn’t useful in
most engagements. The ship we had captured 
only

had six of those special warheads, which were powered by a type of
atomic-compression technology. Skippy wanted to use three of the devices, but I
insisted on deploying four to be sure. Plus I wanted a pair of ship-killers
ready in our launch tubes, if the radiation weapons didn’t take care of the
problem.

We got the Maxolhx missiles loaded into the 
Dutchman
’s launch tubes which was a bit
awkward because the advanced-technology Maxolhx devices were actually smaller
and so our tubes had to be modified.

We got everything ready, then we waited. Skippy
used the wormhole’s sensor feed passively, not feeding anything back, and
watched several ships or groups of ships approach the far end. There were
groups of Thuranin ships, plus a Thuranin cruiser traveling alone, which Skippy
could not explain. What interested us was a single Maxolhx cruiser, except it
was soon joined by a pair of destroyers before they all went through the
wormhole. Then a Maxolhx star carrier, ladened with six warships of various
types. Finally, a single ship approached, a destroyer of a type the kitties
stopped building six hundred years ago. It had been upgraded and modernized,
and I considered targeting it. It was a 
judgment

call. A destroyer was good enough, Skippy declared without a lot of enthusiasm.
We might not get another opportunity. Soon, the Maxolhx would notice that three
of their ships, traveling alone through a particular wormhole, had gone
missing. They would then stop using that wormhole, and all ships would travel
in groups.

Like
 I said,
it was a judgment call. It felt like we were playing blackjack and were up big
already. Did we quit while we were ahead, or let it ride and risk the casino
shutting down the table? In the end, I just wasn’t ready to quit yet. Capturing
a puny little destroyer felt like a disappointment, and we might have only one
more roll of the dice before the network blocked Skippy from using the bagel
slicer. I know, blackjack doesn’t use dice, and I’m mixing metaphors. Throw me
a bone, Ok? It was a tense time.

I ordered Skippy to let the destroyer go, and we
resumed waiting. Immediately after the destroyer jumped away safely, I had a
major case of regrets, doubting myself. Other than small-ante poker games with
friends, I had never been much of a gambler. Maybe I lack the experience to
make informed calls in situations where-

It didn’t matter, because the Universe felt sorry
for me. Or was setting me up for an even bigger fall in the future. A Maxolhx
heavy cruiser, flying by itself, jumped in to wait at the far end of the
wormhole. The assault teams and pilots had been waiting in their dropships for
more than five hours, so they weren’t exactly fresh. Smythe made the call that
his people could handle the task, and he assured me that his eagerness to go
was not just macho bullshit. I trusted him, so I ordered Skippy to get the bagel
slicer ready.

“Uh oh, Joe,” he groaned over the bridge speakers.
“The network is asking me to confirm that I really want to use the bagel-slicer
feature. It is also asking me 
why
 I
want to do this.”

“Shit,” I gasped. The 
Dutchman
 was already under full acceleration toward the wormhole,
yet far enough away that we could veer off instead of going through. It was
also far enough away that an enemy ship coming through might have time to
restore sensors, shields and stealth capability before we flew through the
wormhole. “If we launch the nukes, can we have them intercept the enemy before
it recovers from the spatial distortion.”

“Yes, but we have to launch them soon, like now.”

“Desai!” I shouted.

“On it,” she replied. “Birds away. Running hot,
straight and normal.”

“What is your plan, Joe?” Skippy was puzzled. “Why
are you trying to blow up that ship? If it’s such a threat, we can just let it
go on its merry way.”

“I 
don’t

want to blow it up, unless the bagel-slicer 
fails
 and
it comes through the wormhole intact. If we use the Big Red Button to authorize
those nukes to detonate, can you override, and make them 
not
 explode 
if
 the
bagel-slicer works?”

“Hmm. Good question. I am still prohibited from
using weapons, but in this case, I would be preventing the use of weapons. Um,
yes. Huh, that is interesting. I never thought of that, Joe. Yes. To be clear,
if the network refuses to slice that ship, I do nothing and let the nukes
explode?”

“You got it,” I said, then realized that was poor
communications discipline. “Affirmative. If the bagel-slicer 
does
 work, you deactivate those nukes.
Desai?!”

“Sir?”

“If you don’t see nukes explode, take that as your
cue to launch the four radiation weapons, and keep the ship-killers on a hair
trigger.”

“No nuclear release, I launch the four specials,
and ready the ship-killers.”

“Affirmative,” I agreed as I squeezed my hands
together.

“Target ship is approaching the 
far
 side event horizon,” Skippy announced
excitedly. “Three, two, one.” 
On the display
,
the wormhole winked out. “Slicer worked! Nukes are deauthorized!”

“Special weapons are away,” Desai reported in a
voice much 
more calm
 than Skippy.

 

The 
Dutchman

raced onward, toward a heavy cruiser that was now more of a concept than an
actual warship, and toward a wormhole that was reopening. “Specials will
detonate in ten seconds,” Skippy counted down. “Anticipate- Oh, shit. Well,
that answers 
that
 question. Joe, I am
locked out of using the bagel-slicer. This is our last 
chance,

we better make this one count. Aaaand, specials have detonated.”

The display showed four bright purple flashes just
before they all merged into one bath of intense radiation. “Desai, on my
signal, launch the ship-killers. Do 
not

launch until I give the signal.” If we had an opportunity to capture the forward
hull of another warship, I didn’t want to risk a communications foul-up causing
a disaster.

“Understood,” Desai said. “Launch 
only
 on your signal.” That was not
exactly repeating my order, but it was clear she knew what I meant.

“Skippy? Did the specials do the job?”

“I can’t tell yet, Joe,” he replied peevishly as 
on the display
, I saw us go sliding by the
tumbling hulk of the heavy cruiser. “Residual radiation is playing havoc with
our sensors.”

Before I could respond, Reed spoke up from the
pilot seat. “Colonel?” She reached 
up to point

at the display between the pilot couches. The 
Dutchman
’s present course was projected as a blue line intersecting
the wormhole, with a red line cutting across in front of us. If we went past
that red line, we would not be able to alter course fast enough to avoid
hitting the event horizon.

“I see it. Skippy, is the wormhole stable?”

“Um, no. Not yet. However, it should be stable by
the time we reach the event horizon. Oh, more good news: I scanned the target
and I don’t detect any 
lifesigns
. Also,
the AI appears to be offline. There is substantial damage to all systems,
hopefully I can still work with what is left.”

“We don’t need the ship-killers?”

“No, we do not, Joe.”

“Standing down,” Desai anticipated my next order.
“Ship-killers are 
safed
 and are 
off
 the board.” She meant they could not be 
accidentally
 launched.

Manipulating the controls on the armrest of the
command chair, I zoomed the main display on the wormhole. It had grown to full
size which was good, and its edges were still flickering which was bad. “Uh,
you are 
sure
 the wormhole will be
stable before we get there?”

“Ugh. 
Yes
,
Mister Worrywart,” he scoffed. “That’s good, because I don’t have any more
tricks up my sleeve. Ok, here we go. Three, two, one-”

 

The 
Flying
Dutchman
 plunged into the twisted spacetime of the event horizon, and
moments later, the wormhole winked out, leaving that area of interstellar space
utterly dark again. The only objects of substantial size within three
lightyears were a wandering chunk of ice that would become a comet in eighty-six
thousand years when it entered a nearby red dwarf system, the forward section
of a Maxolhx heavy cruiser, and two missiles with nuclear warheads.

The two warheads named Fred and Ethel commiserated
about their fates, 
as
 the missiles they
were encased in coasted away from the heavy cruiser at eleven thousand
kilometers per hour. They were on different courses, moving apart at around two
thousand klicks per hour. Unless the 
Flying
Dutchman
 came back soon, which was unlikely, they would be so far away that
it would not be worth the time and effort to recover them
. Especially
 now that the Pirates had access to
sophisticated Maxolhx weapons.

Ethel’s missile calculated that she would pass
through or near thirteen star systems, before passing close enough to a
supergiant blue-white star and being captured by its gravity. She would become
a comet in a highly elliptical orbit, until the star collapsed and became a
supernova.

That sucked, and she was so angry that she could
have just exploded
. Except
 she couldn’t,
which sucked even worse.

Fred originally thought he would suffer the worst
fate of all: coasting completely through the Milky Way and out into lonely
intergalactic space, until his missile realized 
that
the galaxy
 itself was moving through space. After that factor was
included, it became clear that Fred would plunge into the massive Sagittarius-A
black hole at the center of the galaxy.

Well, you know, Fred thought, that was just
typical of his life. Nothing he could do about it.

It was good that Fred had not been called 
on
 to explode, because he was, in fact, a dud.

 

We came through the wormhole just fine, without
the Universe having to select an 
improbable

probability of
 reality
 just for us, or
whatever the hell happened the last time. “Skippy, did the-”

“Jackpot, Joe!” He shouted. “Score! We have
another engineering section intact. And, I sliced that ship 
super
 precisely, just aft of the armory.
Which is good, because I am detecting, eleven, no, twelve kitties alive over there.”

“Crap. Ok, Desai, signal the assault ships to
launch. 
Skippy,
 suggest landing target zones and feed
the data to the pilots. I don’t like- Belay that!” I snapped my fingers to stop
Desai. She lifted her hands to show she wasn’t touching the controls. “We have
two enhanced-radiation warheads left. Skippy, can we just bombard the ship with
radiation, instead of the STAR team hunting the kitties down in there?”

“No way, dude. That is a 
terrible
 idea, it would scramble a bunch of the gear we need.”

“Shit. All right, we’ll have to do this the hard
way. Desai, give the launch order.” She hesitated a half-second to see if I
would change my mind again, then the display showed dropships surging away from
us.

“Joe,” Skippy changed the main display to a
schematic of the target ship. “This is not necessarily going to be all that
hard. The areas where the assault teams need to interrupt power are a third of
the way around the hull from where most of the Maxolhx are concentrated. There
are the only two kitties that are in 
a position

to interfere with the boarding operation, and one of them is badly injured.”

“How about the others?” That still left eleven alien
super-warriors who could cause a lot of trouble for Smythe.

“I am running deep scans with active sensors now,
but most of the hull in that section is heavily shielded for obvious reasons.
There is also equipment that interferes with our scans. The reactors have
safely shut down, so the enemy will not be able to overload them and blow up
the ship. Yup, lots of good news all around.”

“Good news, huh?” I got out of the chair and took
three steps to the main display, tapping a finger on the schematic. “This is a
missile magazine, right?” It was 
labeled

that way, but I didn’t know if he was guessing.

“Correct. Like I said, good news. You can thank me
later.”

“Hey, shithead, what will happen if the Maxolhx
get to that magazine, and set a warhead to self-destruct?”

“Oh. Shit. I didn’t think of that. Thanks a 
lot
, Mister Buzzkill.”

“Killing is what I’m worried about. If that
magazine goes up, it could take the whole ship with it, right?”

“Ugh, yes. Um, this could be a problem. Ok, I have
completed the scan. There are now only six kitties alive and mobile over there,
the others are badly injured. That’s 
the good

news. The bad news is, five of them are proceeding along an access corridor
toward the missile magazine.”

“Shit. Desai, wave off the dropships, I don’t want
them anywhere near that ship.”

 

Smythe was not ready to give up. “Skippy, is there
anywhere we could latch on a dropship that is close to that corridor?”

“No,” Skippy grunted. “That section of the hull is
the 
badlands
, there are too many
antennas, radiators and defensive cannons projecting from the hull. A dropship
would get tangled up. It’s too dangerous.”

“Right,” Smythe conceded. “Then, we could do this
the hard way. Park a dropship beyond the antennas, then the assault teams go in
using jetpacks.”

“Whoa!” Skippy gasped. “That is crazy.”

“Smythe, I agree,” I agreed. “That ship is
tumbling too much to fly a jetpack in there. It’s not safe.”

“As you pointed out, Sir,” he said with dry humor.
“This is not about 
safety
.”

I hated having my own words thrown back in my
face. “Smythe, hold on, I’ll look at the area.” He knew I could fly a jetpack,
and his people had more skill and experience with free-flying in space.
“Skippy, zoom in the view on the corridor, and highlight the magazine.”

“Done. Joe, I know space monkeys are eager for
action, but I just ran simulations. Attempting to maneuver in there with a jetpack
is extremely hazardous. The only access to the interior, in that whole area, is
here where the corridor runs along the outside- HUH!” he gasped. “Joe, I just
got another monkey-brained idea! Get the dropships clear, we need to move the
ship. 
Course
 is programmed in the nav
system.”

“Colonel?” Reed inquired from the pilot couch.

“Do it, and step on it,” I ordered. “Skippy, what
is your idea?”

Before he answered, he showed a video 
on the display
. The enemy ship was slowly
tumbling out of control, while the 
Flying
Dutchman
 drew alongside and matched speed. As the part of the enemy hull
with the corridor rotated into view, the 
Dutchman

fired a 
maser
 cannon. The video zoomed
in, showing the maser beam chewing into the exterior of the corridor, which in
that area was a tube running along the outside of the hull. “Joe, that ship is
exposed, it is not protected by an energy shield. The corridor does not have
armor plating. We can cut into it with a 
maser

beam. That will either kill the enemy, or make them find another way to the
missile magazine.”

“Wow. I’m impressed, Skippy. You can do that
without hitting anything we need?”

“It’s going to be tricky, but I can preprogram the
cannon.” he said with that overconfidence that annoyed me. “The difficult part
will be cutting into that corridor while the Maxolhx 
are
 in there. I am estimating when they will be there, based on
their progress to date. The timing will be close. Oh, also, there is a power
feed running along the corridor. If that gets hit, it might cause 
a feedback
 power surge that could overload the 
powercells
 of a particle cannon, and that might
damage the missile magazine. It will be tricky,” he repeated. “I always tell
you to trust the awesomeness, but I have to admit in this case, I am not sure
we can do this. It could be a disaster.”

“How about if I offer an incentive? If this works,
you can perform part of an opera on karaoke night. Uh, no more than ten
minutes,” I clarified my offer, thinking I 
was
being
 clever.

“Deal!” He agreed immediately.

 

It was a 
disaster
,
worse than I could have imagined.

Oh, we did cut into that corridor with a 
maser
 cannon, and either sucked those kitties
into space, or the microwave energy of our beam boiled them alive in their
suits. That part was entirely successful. Smythe’s teams then massed fire on
the one remaining Maxolhx who was mobile, and we soon had captured another
prize. The STAR team suffered only one broken arm, two mild concussions, and
some minor bumps and bruises. 

The 
disaster

part was the next karaoke night. Skippy sang selections from his truly awful
opera, then when I thought it was mercifully over, he sang three show tunes.
Damn it, I had forgotten to explain he could sing his opera 
instead
 of his usual scheduled performance,
so I couldn’t stop him.

Next time, I really need to get my deals reviewed
by a lawyer before opening my big stupid mouth.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER 
THIRTY
THREE

 

 

“What do you think, Skippy? Can you stick these
Legos together to make a ship for us?” I asked the critical question after we
got the aft end of the heavy cruiser towed through the wormhole and near the
other three pieces. We had an entire heavy cruiser, though the forward section
had sustained damage from the enhanced-radiation weapons. Plus we had the front
and back sections of two different battlecruisers, of the same type.

“The short answer is ‘Yes’, Joe.” He took off his
admiral’s hat and made a show of scratching his shiny dome. “The long answer
is, it’s complicated. We have enough parts not only to make a bad-ass
battlecruiser
,
 we can also significantly
upgrade the 
Flying Dutchman
. Plus
have plenty of spare parts left over. Unless you don’t want me to use some of
the parts for the 
Dutchman
?”

“I need more info before I can make a decision.
Right now, I know pretty much nothing. What do you recommend?”

“With all those Lego sections to work with, there
is no reason to reserve all the components for one ship. Especially because the

Dutchman
 is wearing out.”

“I hear you, but is upgrading the old 
Dutchman
 really worth the effort?
Underneath whatever fancy doodads you add, it will still be a star carrier. A
space truck.”

“A star carrier has good bones to work with. Her
spine is extra sturdy, and the design is inherently flexible. Trust me, Joe, I
can make something special out of our trusty old space truck. The choices are 
either to upgrade, or
 allow the ship 
to gradually degrade until she is not flightworthy
.”

“Ok, good, it would be great to have a second ship,”
I felt relief by saying that. “I did not want to abandon the 
Dutchman
. Even if she only acts as a
support ship or a transport for the beta site, we need her.”

“Besides, there is another other reason we should
keep the 
Dutchman
 flying as long as
possible.”

“What’s that?”

He lowered his voice. “Nagatha’s matrix is hosted
within the 
Dutchman
’s substrate. I
assembled that substrate from bits and pieces of incompatible technology we
scavenged from the Roach Motel, and she has grown to fill every nook and cranny
available. It would be extremely difficult to extract her. Damn it, I just got
her 
put
 back together. I would not look
forward to transferring her matrix to another vessel. And, I will deny this if
you tell anyone-”

“I have no memory of this whole conversation, I
promise.”

“Ok. Joe, we 
owe

her. She saved both of our asses during the Homefront battle, when she
sacrificed herself. It was a miracle that she survived. Well, the true miracle
was provided by my awesomeness, but she didn’t know if I could save her.”

Wow. I had not heard Skippy ever express gratitude
about Nagatha. “You are right, we do owe her, big-time. Is she listening to us
now?”

“No. I blocked her access. She will probably know
we are talking about something I don’t want her to know, but she won’t hear
unless you open your big stupid mouth.”

“She won’t hear it from me. Well, she will hear
that I am grateful for her actions. You, of course, are above that kind of
sappy sentimentality.”

“I’m glad we agree on that,” he sniffed, but it
was a sad sniff, like he was momentarily overcome by emotion.

“We got off the subject there. You build us a bad-ass
warship, then you can use the leftover parts to pimp the 
Dutchman
.”

“Excellent idea. Except, um, I pretty much know
what parts will be left over, and upgrading the 
Dutchman
 will be faster and easier. Also, I am still inspecting and
sorting through which components are useful.”

“Do what you can.”

 

 

“Sir?” Adams got up from a table and approached me
when I walked into the galley. “Have you thought about what to name our new
ship?”

“Uh-” I was startled. The truth was, I had not
thought about that at all. “Adams, if you are going to suggest we name it ‘
Enterprise
’, I have-”

“No, I’ve given up on that,” she shook her head.
“Did you know the crew has been making a list of suggestions?”

“That’s a fact, Jack!” Skippy interjected. “Some
of the suggestions are really lame. I mean, why would we call our battlecruiser
the ‘Honey Badger’?”

I had to laugh. “Because honey badgers are 
tough
 little animals. Have you seen the
old video of a honey badger facing off against a lion?”

“Oh, yeah, hee hee, I just watched that. Ok, I can
see they are tough, but, seriously-”

“Yeah, we’re not using that name. What else 
have you
 got on the list?”

“Just sent the list to your phone, Joe.”

Setting down the coffee mug I hadn’t filled yet, I
pulled out my zPhone. Ugh. None of the suggestions excited me. And no way were
we calling it ‘Titanic’, our special operators had a dark sense of humor. A
bunch of the 
names
 played up the idea
that the Maxolhx looked like cats, but that ship was now 
ours
, and I didn’t want to be reminded of the connection every time
I saw the name on a report. There were some reasonably cool name suggestions,
but- “Skippy, what did the kitties call the ship?”

“Which one, Joe?”

“The biggest piece, the forward section of the
battlecruiser. The first one we captured.” He was building our new ship around
that piece. “I remember reading somewhere, that changing the name of a ship can
be bad luck.”

Skippy snorted. “You are superstitious?
Seriously?”

“Hey, beer can, we can use all the luck we can get
out here. No 
sense
 giving the Universe
another reason to hate us.”

“Ok, I can see that. The closest translation of
the Maxolhx name is ‘Angel of Battle’, or ‘Angel of Fate’. Something like
that.”

“Angel of battle? Like a Valkyrie?”

“I suppose so. Sure. In mythology, the Valkyries
were angels who escorted fallen warriors to their reward in Valhalla.”

“Hmm. A Valkyrie, huh? An angel to smite our
enemies,” I mused.

“I like it, Sir,” Adams agreed.

That made the decision for me. When looking
through the list, I had been trying to guess which name she had suggested
. If
 she liked the name, that made it easy. “
Skippy,
 make it so. The ship’s name is ‘
Valkyrie
’.”

“Make it so? Whatever. Ok, so you’re going with a
Vogg-nur theme for ship names?”

“Vogg-who? Was he one of those big orcs in ‘Lord
of the Rings’?”

“Ree-
kard

Vogg-nur,” he pronounced slowly. “Ugh. You would say ‘Richard 
Wagg
-nur’, 
you

ignorant cretin. He was a German composer who created the opera 
Der 
fliegende
 Holländer
.”

“Well, yeah, everybody knows that. Uh, what is
that opera again?”

“In English, the title is. The. Flying. Dutchman. 
DUH
.”

“Skippy, I barely speak English, give me a break,
Ok?”

“Vogg-nur,” he kept using the fancy pronunciation
because he was showing off, and because he is an arrogant ass. “Also created an
opera you would call ‘The Valkyrie’.”

“Oh. Shit. I named both of our ships after 
operas
?”

“No, you just got lucky.”

“Yeah, that’s what I was going to say.”

“Remind me again why I got stuck with you?”

“Because you did a bad, bad thing in a previous
life?”

“Damn, I hope so. Otherwise, this punishment is
all for 
nothing
. You sure you want
the name to be 
Valkyrie
?”

“That depends,” I answered warily. “Is there a
reason we should 
not
 use that name?”

“No. It is a kick-ass name for a kick-ass warship.
And it’s close enough to the original Maxolhx name, that little Joe doesn’t
have to be scared of monsters hiding under his bed.”

“Monsters under my bed would not be the strangest
thing we’ve seen out here.”

“Good point,” he conceded.

Adams gave the name an enthusiastic thumbs up, so
that was the decision.

 

The ‘
Valkyrie
’
name was popular with the crew, and morale was high, even after the memorial
service for the people we had lost. Then, we ran into complications, because of
course we did.

The first
complication wasn’t serious, it was more annoying.
 Except it was serious
to Skippy, who had to change his plans. It started when an image popped up on
my laptop. “Hey, Joe! Check it out,” he urged. “That’s my plan for upgrading
the 
Flying Dutchman
. I will be
tearing out the two old reactors we got in the Roach Motel, and replacing them
with three new reactors. Plus-”

“Wait,” I held up a finger. No, not that finger,
just an index finger. “What is 
this
?”
I pointed to the very front of the proposed new 
Dutchman
. “And these? What are these things?”

“
Ugh
.
The thing on the front is the new sensor dome. The other things are combination
energy sink-radiators, they hold and later dissipate excess energy absorbed by
the shields.”

“We can’t,” I said with a frown, then I started
giggling. Yes, I was giggling. The sensor dome was a big ball on the very front
of the ship. The radiators looked like wings, tiny wings. “We can’t fly a ship
that looks like this. That sensor dome on the front looks like a big red 
clown nose
.”

“Oh for- It is only colored red in the schematic,
dumdum. It will be-”

“I don’t care what color you paint it or whatever.
No one will want to fly a ship looking like a clown. And those radiators? They
make the ship look like a cartoon of a big insect with tiny wings. This makes
our space truck look dopey.”

“Dude, seriously, you can’t-”

“I am serious, Skippy. There must be alternative
designs, right?”

“Yes, of course, but-”

“Great. Let me look at those, and I’ll decide.”

“Oh, right. Because 
you
 are an expert on starship design.”

“Are these other designs substantially worse in
performance?”

“Well, no,” he grumbled. “Some of them would
result in 
better
 performance, but
constructing them takes more time and-”

“Include that info in your report. Let’s move on.
I asked you about the possibility of moving Nagatha over to the 
Valkyrie
, or making a copy of her over
there. You haven’t answered me about-”

“Not happening, Joe. That is not possible. Listen,
I warned you and Nagatha about this. After this last time she was rebuilt, her
matrix was customized to fit the architecture of the substrate aboard the 
Dutchman
. Because I know those technical
terms don’t mean anything to you, I will-”

“I know what it means, thank you very much. Ok,
Nagatha warned me that she couldn’t be migrated over to the 
Valkyrie
. I was hoping you knew a trick
she wasn’t aware of.”

“Like I said, Joe. It is not possible. Even if we
could emulate the architecture of the 
Dutchman
’s
substrate inside 
Valkyrie
’s systems,
the result would not be Nagatha, you understand that?”

“Ok, yeah,” I was disappointed. When 
Valkyrie
 was flightworthy, I would be
transferring my command over to that ship, and leaving the 
Dutchman
 behind. That meant leaving Nagatha also. While I would
miss her, I was more concerned that she would miss me. And that was not just me
being arrogant, people told me Nagatha had been talking about how she dreaded
being separated from me. I hoped that 
would

not become a problem.

“The reason it is not even remotely possible,”
Skippy continued, “is the nature of high-level computing systems built by the
Maxolhx. Their AIs are firmware, Joe, the part you would call software can’t be
separated from the physical layer. It’s like, um, well, DNA would be a crude
analogy. Data storage and processing are built 
into
 the system, it doesn’t run 
on

the system. That creates a major problem for me, because I can’t simply erase
the original ship AI. Unfortunately, I also can’t run the ship without that AI,
unless I take direct and permanent control over every system aboard the ship.
If I do that, I could never leave the ship.”

“Crap. That’s no good.”

“Tell me about it,” his avatar rolled its eyes.
“The real problem is, the AI really, 
really

wants to kill all you humans.”

“Shit!” I gasped.

“Don’t worry, I am forcing it to follow my
commands. 
But,
 it may be a long time before the 
Valkyrie
 has an AI that is actually
cooperative. That won’t be a problem while I am putting the ship together,
because that is all my work. When the ship is ready to fly, my 
subminds
 will have to watch every move the
resident AI makes.”

“It wants to kill us?” I asked.

“Joe, that AI hates you with a passion that is
frightening. It hates 
you

specifically. That AI has an entire 
submind

devoted to fantasizing about horribly painful ways to kill you, very slowly.
Hee hee,” he chuckled. “I am actually learning a few things about-”

“This is not funny, Skippy.”

“Oh,” he couldn’t stop chuckling. “Of course not.”

“Whatever,” I dismissed the threat with bravado,
while inside I was terrified. “Why haven’t you told me about the power
generation capacity of the new ship? It wasn’t in the report this morning, and
I asked you about it three days ago.”

“Well, heh heh,” his voice had a stutter to it. “It’s
complicated, Joe. I am building a ship out of Lego pieces, 
broken
 Lego pieces. Actually, I am running a test right now, should
have answers within the hour. Maybe sooner.”

“Make sure that happens,” I was grumpy from
hearing my shiny new ship wanted to kill me. “Reed wants to talk to me next, so
I’m going to the galley for coffee.”

 

When I got back to my office, our chief pilot
Samantha Reed was waiting for me. Officially, she was there to review routine
proficiency reports for her pilots. In reality, she was there to politely
persuade me that I should not be Bogarting the Panther flight simulator. Her
accusation was not entirely accurate, as I only scheduled simulator time when
the thing wasn’t in use, but the truth was that my actions resulted in real
pilots not getting enough simulator time. The pilots who wanted to schedule
time saw that my name was on the waiting list, and they were reluctant to push
me aside. So, Fireball Reed was pushing me aside. She was doing it tactfully,
but I got the message. “Ok,” I told her. “How about 
you
 let me know when there is an opening, when no other pilots are
able to use either the real Panther or the simulator?” We did not risk the
precious Panther for routine flight training, but its controls could be used
for training even when it was powered down in a docking cradle.

“It shouldn’t matter soon, Sir,” she assured me
hopefully. Aboard the Legos pieces were plenty of sophisticated dropships, and
Skippy estimated that most of them were still in flightworthy condition.
However, he had not been able to devote the time or bots to actually check
their condition, other than asking the dropship AIs to run a self-diagnostic.
So, at the moment we still only had one usable Panther, and the prospect of soon
having a half-dozen more had all of our pilots eagerly dedicating every free
moment they had to 
qualify
 to fly an
actual Panther. The only reason any simulator time was available at all, was
because the on-duty time of our pilots was taken up in learning to fly the 
Valkyrie
.

Wow. When the pilots who remained on Avalon found
out they missed the opportunity to fly a freakin’ Maxolhx 
battlecruiser
, they would be kicking themselves. Those pilots
thought they 
were being
 smart by
volunteering to stay on the potential beta site. While the 
Flying Dutchman
 routinely shuttled back and forth to Earth, pilots
on Avalon would get to explore a new planet, and maybe fly around an unknown
star system. Maybe the Universe enjoyed screwing with them, too. “Assuming we
send the 
Dutchman
 to Avalon, while
the 
Valkyrie
 goes, uh-” I had no idea
what our bad-ass new warship would, or could, do next. “Have you thought about
which of your team should remain with the good old 
Dutchman
?” It was odd that I already thought of our trusty but
worn-out Thuranin star carrier as my previous command.

“None of them will want to, Sir,” she groaned. “It
may be the only fair way to choose who stays behind, is drawing straws, or something
like that.”

“A random lottery?” I considered that for a
moment. “Let’s do that.”

“Seriously?”

“Yes. Desai will be in command of the 
Dutchman
,
 she is a
qualified pilot.”

“She isn’t fully checked out on the Panther yet,”
Reed reminded me.

“We will keep all the Panthers aboard the 
Valkyrie
,
 the 
Dutchman
 can take the rest of the
dropships. With Desai in command, I think the 
Dutchman
 only needs two other pilots. Pilots qualified to fly the
ship, not just dropships.”

“Are you sure about that, Sir?”

“We will escort the 
Dutchman
 to the super-duty wormhole, it is only a short flight to
Avalon from there. At Avalon, Desai can bring 
aboard
other pilots
.”

“Makes sense,” she agreed. “Unless they run into
trouble.”

“Reed, I am hoping the Bad Luck Fairy is following

me
, and not whatever ship I’m on. The

Dutchman
 should be fine. If she runs
into trouble in the Sculptor galaxy, a 
couple of

extra pilots won’t make much of a diff-”

“Uh oh,” Skippy groaned as his avatar appeared on
my desk. “Joe, I have the results of the test I told you about. I was afraid of
this.”

“What?” It was never a good sign when Skippy
groaned about something. “I thought everything was going well with your Lego
project.”

“
Most

things are going well, or I have plans to work around the problem. However, the
main power source is a major, major problem that I cannot fix. I’m sorry.”

“Power source?” I knew he had been working on the
ship’s fusion reactors, because his whining about them was at the top of the
status report I had to read every damned morning. “Maxolhx ships are advanced,
right? What is so special about them? Do they use hydrogen power or something
like that?”

“Hy-dro-gen power?” Skippy was mystified.

“Yeah, you know, like, uh-” Admittedly, I was a
little vague about how hydrogen could be used as a power source. All I knew was,
magazines like Popular Science had articles about how automakers were
researching hydrogen-powered cars, and it sounded cool. Although now that I
thought about it, the barbershop my father took me to when I was little had
magazines that were already ancient, and those magazines had articles about the
miracles of hydrogen power. So maybe automakers hadn’t made much progress in,
like, forever.

We are 
still

waiting for flying cars
. What
 a bunch of
jerks.

“You know,” I waved a hand in the air. “Power from
hydrogen.”

“Uh huh. Joe, let me smack a little knowledge on
you. If you are thinking of hydrogen fuel cells, which is a fancy way of
getting electricity by combining hydrogen and oxygen, my advice is
fuggedaboutit. It takes more energy to extract and concentrate hydrogen, than
the amount of energy you get out of the reaction in a fuel cell. Also, pound
for pound, hydrogen has a low energy density.”

“Uh,” I tried to understand what he meant by that.
He called 
me
 dense and that was a bad
thing, so was ‘low density’ good? Wisely, I kept my mouth shut and let him
continue.

“You should not think of hydrogen as a fuel, it is
more like a low-yield potential-energy chemical storage battery.”

“But,” I thought back to chemistry class in high
school, when Mrs. Boghossian had burned a small flask of pure hydrogen. “But
when hydrogen burns, it makes 
water
. Everything
else you burn, water will put out the fire, but burning hydrogen 
makes
 it! How cool is that?”

“Wow. Oh, oooh,” he pressed the back of one hand
to his head and bent his knees like he was about to faint. “You just blew my
mind, Joe. I need to lay down with a cold compress on my forehead and contemplate
this astonishing revelation. Everything I knew about the Universe has to be
reexamined now. Oy, I am verklempt.”

“Oh, shut up. 
Why

are you such an asshole?”

“Why are 
you

still such an 
ignoramous
, despite the
best efforts of 
me and the science team

to smarten you up?”

“Well, uh,” now he had gotten me mad. “Hey, we
extract fuel from gas giant planets. Tell me, Mister Smartypants, why do we get
more power out of 
that
 fuel than we
spend collecting it?”

“Because, numbskull, we do not extract hydrogen.
We extract 
Helium Three
. And we do
not use that fuel in a crude chemical exchange of electrons, we crush it in a
fusion reaction that tears the atoms apart. Well, actually we use the Helium
Three to make an exotic-matter fuel that is more efficient, but I do not want
to explain nerdy details to you.”

I kept waiting for him to say the inevitable and
much-deserved ‘Duh’, but he left me hanging. He knew I was saying the ‘Duh’ to
myself for him. “Ok,” I mumbled.

“What was that?”

“Ok! I said Ok! Forget I opened my big stupid
mouth before. What is this major, major problem you can’t fix? The status
report this morning said you were about to initiate low-level fusion in one of
the reactors, as a test. Did that test go wrong?”

“No, 
that

test went perfectly. Well, close to perfect. Ok, that reactor came within a
razor’s edge of a runaway reaction, but that’s why I was testing at a low power
setting. The problem is not the reactor, and I am confident the reactors can be
scaled up to full power. The problem is their full power level is inadequate to
run the ship at its designed capacity. Since my redesign will make the ship
perform 
beyond
 its original capacity,
that is a muy mucho problemo.”

I was pretty sure his Spanish was not correct, but
I didn’t argue. “Wait. This ship will have one more reactor than the original battlecruiser
had. How can it 
not
 have enough
power? Were the reactors damaged too badly by the bagel slicer?”

“The reactors have been rebuilt, so the combined
units generate 
ninety-two
 percent of the
original design. The extra reactor takes up the slack for the damaged units.
The problem is, those reactors were never capable of generating the full amount
of power this ship needs.”

“Uh-” That was the most intelligent thing I could
say right then.

“I will break it down Barney-style for you. On
Maxolhx warships, the reactor output is used only to access vacuum, or zero-point
energy.”

“Zero-point? You mean a ZPM, like in Stargate?”

“No. Well, ugh, yes, sort of. Close enough.”

“So, this ZPM thing is like an Elder power tap? It
pulls free unlimited energy from nowhere?”

“No, not even close. Dang it, this is my fault,
for trying to explain something more complicated than shoelaces. Actually, hmm,
the math of knot theory is fairly advanced, so that’s a bad analogy. Ok, listen
up, knucklehead. Even an Elder power tap does not produce unlimited energy,
because after a great long time, its connection to the power source gets
eroded. Also, the energy is not ‘free’, it comes from somewhere that you are
not capable of understanding. Let’s just say that Entropy is going to get paid
one way or another. The technology used by the Maxolhx is vaguely, very
distantly related to an Elder power tap, but there is an important difference.
Once initiated, an Elder power tap is self-sustaining; it will keep itself
running. A Maxolhx device is sort of an energy amplifier. It takes a 
lot
 of energy to get the reaction
started, then you have to keep feeding power into it, or the reaction shuts
down. 
The advantage is that you get more power
out, than you put in.
 Like, typically four and a half times as much
power comes 
out
 as you put into it. With
my modifications, we could get 
six

times as much power out, as the ship’s reactors pump into the device.”

“So, it’s magic.”

“No, it’s, ugh.” He waved a hand around vaguely.
“How can I dumb this down enough for you to understand? Basically, the output
from the reactors is mostly used to hold open a doorway to a vacuum energy
source-”

“Vacuum? You said this was zero-point energy.”

“It is actually neither of those, but as I am
trying to explain this to a monkey, does it really matter?”

“Uh, no,” I felt ashamed. “Please continue.”

“Thank you. Joe. Although 
you
 monkeys are at the very bottom of the development ladder, you
can take some comfort from knowing that even the Maxolhx do not fully
understand the technology they are using. They discovered the amplifier effect
by accident, while a Maxolhx scientist named Juxla-ut-
kel
 was attempting to reverse-engineer a Rindhalu power generator.”

“It worked?”

“Well, sort of. The 
Juxla
 Crater is still visible where a city used to be, so he did
achieve a level of success, I guess. Anyway, the kitties know how to use the
effect, although they do not truly understand how it works. What matters to us
is, use of a ZPM gives this ship the great level of energy needed to make it
such a formidable warship.”

“Cool! So, what is the issue?”

“The issue is, all the ZPMs aboard the piles of
Legos I had to work with are broken. Shattered, completely and busted, Joe.
They can’t be fixed. They can be rather delicate. I was afraid they might be
damaged by the bagel slicer, but I was hoping 
some
 of them would survive well enough or me to work with. I was
wrong. The effect of the reactor power feed cutting out so abruptly permanently
severed their connection to the quantum- Ugh. Listen, all you need to know is
they are all busted. I knew that was a risk for the active units, but I
expected to pull replacements from the ship’s spares. Unfortunately, because
the power cut out so close to an event horizon, there was a feedback effect
that disrupted 
all
 the ZPMs. Stupid
wormhole.”

“Oh,” I cradled my head in my hands and closed my
eyes. Why can’t 
anything
 ever be
simple and easy? “That sucks.”

“Indeed. Imagine how I feel, discovering that
after the work I did, it was all for 
nothing
.”

I glared up at him. “People 
died
, you ass. The work you did is the last thing I care about.”

“I am sorry, Joe. You’re right.”

“You can’t take a bunch of these things, and
cannibalize parts to get a couple of them working again?”

“No. You don’t understand. Their connection to
higher spacetime has been severed. I can access that spacetime, but my power is
too great to channel into a ZPM to initiate the reaction. The ZPM would blow
and damage the ship. What we need is a ZPM that has never been used, so I can
initiate it and make it useful.”

“I don’t suppose they are giving away one of these
ZPMs in a Happy Meal?”

“Sadly, no. Taco Bell had a promotion where you
could get a ZPM after eating thirty chalupa meals in a month, but they had to
cancel the promotion in the interest of public health.”

“Good idea. Even I couldn’t eat thirty chalupas in
a month.”

“Without ZPMs, we are-”

“Wait. ZPM
s
?”
I put emphasis on the last ‘s’ sound. “Like, more than one?”

“Sure. We need four of them for each reactor.
Didn’t I explain that?”

“Pretty sure I would have remembered that nagging
little detail, you little shithead. Fine. Without a full complement of ZPMs- We
can’t keep calling this thing a ZPM,” I declared.

“Does it matter, Joe?” Skippy sighed.

“Yeah, it does. ZPM is a Stargate thing, and you
said the technology we need is 
not
 a
zero-point energy device. What should we call it?” I mused, showing that once again,
I was focused on what was truly important. “Explain to me again how this thing
works.”

“
Ugh
.
The 
Valkyrie
’s reactor power will
create a portal to higher spacetime using a null-field, to access potential
energy from the vacuum- Oh, explaining this to you is a 
total
 waste of my precious time,” he fumed.

“Hmm,” I leaned my chair back and stared at the
ceiling. “Ok. Potential Energy Null-field, uh. And it multiplies, or enhances,
the amount of energy you put into it. So, P, E, N-”

Reed interrupted me with a giggle, which became a
snort that embarrassed her, which made her giggle more. “P.E.N.? Sir,” she
could barely talk. “If you plan to call this thing a 
PENIS Enhancer
,” she rocked back and forth so hard she nearly fell
off her chair, “you may want to think-” Tears ran down her cheeks, she was
laughing so hard. “Again.”

That kind of made my quest to name the ZPM-type
thing even more important, because if I didn’t think up a good name, everyone
was going to call it a ‘penis enhancer’. “So, this thing is not a Zero Point
Module, what should we call it?”

“Ugh. Does 
that

really matter?”

“Do you want me to call it a ‘dingus’ or ‘
whatchmacallit
’?”

“No! All right, fine. Um, it multiplies or
amplifies, power fed into a quantum vacuum, um. How about we call it a Vacuum
Power Multiplier?”

“VPM? I like it.”

“Do you have any other idiotic requests to waste
my time?”

“No, ‘VPM’ is good. So, can we make one?” I asked,
while awkwardly avoiding the amused look I was getting from Reed.

“Nope.” He folded his arms across his chest. That
was a bad sign. “We don’t have the equipment to make even one VPM, and we don’t
even have the capability to make the equipment we need. It would be easier to
get a working VPM, than it would be to acquire all the specialized gear to make
one. The factory where the Maxolhx manufacture and initiate VPMs is the size of
a small 
moon
, Joe.”

“I was afraid you would say that. All right,” I
sighed. “How can we get a bunch of VPMs, that don’t get broken in the process
of us stealing them?”

“Well, heh heh-”

He didn’t need to finish that thought.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER 
THIRTY FOUR

 

Because the crew was feeling triumphant that we
now had a bad-ass warship, and because Skippy had just told me we did 
not
, in fact, have a warship at all, I
called the off-duty crew into the galley to announce the bad news.

“What’s up, Colonel?” Frey asked after the last
few people trickled into the galley. With our small crew, there were plenty of
seats for everyone.

I opened my mouth, but Skippy spoke before I could
say anything. “As you all know, I have been working nonstop to bring the 
Valkyrie
 online. This has meant my bots
have been unavailable for routine duties aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
, and that much of our reactor output has been
dedicated to supplying the 
Valkyrie
.
Laundry has not been done, artificial gravity has been reduced to sixty percent
of Earth normal, and training opportunities for pilots and the STAR team have
been limited. I appreciate the sacrifices you have all made, and I wish I could
say it will be over soon. However, I now have an additional workload to handle,
and dedicating my resources to this new task will delay bringing the 
Valkyrie
 online. This is a little
embarrassing to say, but, well,” He paused and mimicked taking a breath. “Joe
wants me to work on building a penis enhancer for him.”

If people had their eyes open any wider, they
would have popped out of their heads. And all those eyes were staring in shock
at 
me
. “No, that is 
not
-” I was drowned out by the crew
laughing uproariously. There had been a second of stunned silence, until Reed
burst out laughing, and everyone joined her.

“Hey!” Skippy glared at the crew. “Let’s face it,
the guy needs all the help he can 
ge
-”

“Not funny!” I shouted.

“You are right, Joe.” He put his hands on his hips
and glared at the crew. “It is not 
funny
 and people
should 
not
 be laughing at you. You
are very brave to admit-”

“I am not admitting anything!” I screeched.

“Oh, Joe,” he shook his head. 
“This is 
so

sad.
 The first step in getting help is admitting that you have a
problem. Your example can inspire men with your problem 
to
-”

I lunged forward to grab his avatar around the
neck so I could strangle him, but he winked out of existence and instantly
reappeared a few feet away. I slapped the table there, then the next place he
jumped to. There I was, playing 
wack-a-mole

with a holographic avatar.

It was not my finest hour.

The game ended when my scalp tingled as he
appeared to be standing on my head, and I slapped myself so hard I saw stars.
His avatar floated in the air near the ceiling on the far wall, where I
couldn’t get him. I was out of breath, and I couldn’t look up to meet anyone’s
eyes.

“Sir,” Reed had gotten her giggling under control.
“Sorry. Everyone, the, um, enhancer thing was 
my
 joke. Skippy discovered that to make the 
Valkyrie
 work, we need a vacuum-power thing to multiply, or 
boost
, the output of the reactors.
Which,” it was her turn to glare at the supreme asshole. “He should have known
before we started this project.”

“Hey!” Skippy protested, uncomfortable that now
all eyes were looking at him rather than me. “I couldn’t have known this would
be a problem! Well, Ok, I suspected it 
might

be a problem. Very likely 
would
 be a
problem, I mean, almost certainly, um-”

“You are not helping your case,” I was grateful
the attention of the crew was no longer focused on me.

“I didn’t 
know

for sure,” he muttered. “Anywho, why 
dwell

on the past, right?”

“The 
Valkyrie

can’t operate without this booster?” Desai asked, just as surprised as I was
when I heard the bad news.

“The ship can fly,” I explained. “But without
these Vacuum Power Multipliers-”

“
These
?”
Desai asked.

“Yes. We need a bunch of them,” now I was feeling
uncomfortable again. “Without VPMs, the 
Valkyrie

can’t do all the things that make a Maxolhx warship special.”

“That is true,” Skippy nodded, feeling safe enough
to come back onto the table. “Without power multipliers, the 
Valkyrie
 might lose a battle against a 
Jeraptha
 destroyer. Many of the critical
defensive and weapon systems aboard a Maxolhx warship are very power-hungry.
Also, we need additional VPMs to upgrade the 
Dutchman
. And for spares.
We need lots of those.”

“Very well, Sir,” Smythe addressed his comment to
me. “Give us the bad news, please. What must we do to get the VPMs we need?”

“Well, heh heh,” is all Skippy said, and everyone
groaned.

 

 

 
“Hey, Joe,”
Skippy’s avatar appeared on my desk without warning. He did that often enough
that it shouldn’t have startled me, but I still wasn’t used to it. Also, I had
an immediate shock of guilt, because I had been playing a video game when he
called. It made me feel like I was in school and the teacher caught me with a
comic inside my textbook. Not that I ever did that, of course.

It was stupid of me to try turning the game off
when he appeared, he already knew what I was doing. That was 
probably
 why I could not get past Level Two in
the freakin’ game. He had to be messing with me.

“Hey, Skippy.”

“Why so glum, homeboy? You should be happy! We
have a bad-ass battlecruiser, plus enough leftover parts to upgrade the 
Flying Dutchman
 so it’s not just a space
truck.”

“Why am I glum? Jeez, I don’t know,” I directed my
sarcasm at him, which was unfair. He had performed above and beyond my already
unfairly high expectations, the fault was with myself. Maybe
 I
 needed to 
study
 about empathy. “Let’s start with the fact that we do not have
a bad-ass battlecruiser. We have an underpowered ship that can’t operate the
systems that 
make
 it a warship. Same with
the 
Dutchman
. None of those upgrades
will make any difference unless we 
can
 steal
a set of working VPMs to boost the output of the reactors. So, we have yet
another impossible freakin’ task; to steal a bunch of Vacuum Power Multipliers.”

“Ok, but we have done that kind of stuff before,
so what is really bothering you?”

“Two things, Skippy. No, three. First, we’ve had a
good run of luck until recently. We didn’t have anyone killed or even seriously
injured, since we left Kombamik at the end of our Black Ops mission to start a
civil war.” That was true. People had suffered minor injuries in our raid
against the Wurgalan, and on Gingerbread, and while we were flying around
collecting components in the Roach Motel junkyard. None of those amounted to
anything serious. People got injured worse in training. “Now, we lost people,
and we have three people with injuries bad enough to sideline them permanently.”

“Not 
permanently
.
No more than four months, Joe, until they are able to resume normal activities.
I have been making substantial progress with modifying Maxolhx medical
technology for human physiology, and I expect to begin trials next week.”

“That is great, Skippy. Whew,” I sat back in my
chair and let out a long breath. “Are you sure about that?”

“Yes, absolutely. Regrowing limbs is a tricky
process, but as Doctor Friedlander would say, it’s not rocket science. I am one
hundred percent confident in a complete recovery for all three of my patients.
We have done that before with Thuranin 
nanomeds
,
and Maxolhx technology is substantially more advanced.”

“Do they know about this yet? Your patients, I
mean.”

“No, Joe, I thought they should hear the good news
from you.”

“No. No way, Skippy. I’m not walking into sickbay
to take credit for someone else’s accomplishment. Smythe is the STAR team
leader, 
he
 should tell them. Let
Smythe know ASAP, and tell him what I said. Ok, let’s get back to the subject. I
don’t mean to take anything away from your accomplishment, but ‘normal
activities’ has a different definition for STAR team operators. They need a
high level of fitness to perform their jobs. How long until those three people
can effectively rejoin the team?”

“Oh, uh, hmm, good point. Well, they will be
highly motivated to regain fitness, so they will likely overdo their rehab
exercises and get injured again-”

“No, they won’t,” I shook my head. “Smythe made it
crystal clear that he will not tolerate any cowboy shit. Anyone who does not
adhere exactly to the recommended program of recovery will be dismissed. We are
thin on operators 
already,
 we can’t afford to lose
people to stupidity. Assume they follow the program.”

“I think you 
are
being
 wildly optimistic, but sure, what the hell. Realistically, it will
be another seven, maybe seven and a half months until those people could be
considered fit for combat. Physical fitness is not the only issue, Joe. Regrowing
limbs requires a patient’s brain to rewire itself, to communicate with and
control the new limb. That process can’t be rushed. Those people are going to
feel very uncoordinated at first, that is going to be frustrating. Especially
to people who are used to being elite operators. What else is bothering you,
Joe?”

“The usual problem, the obvious problem. Let’s say

somehow
 we get a batch of VPMs and we get 
Valkyrie

fully operational. So what? We have no plan for what to do with our bad-ass
battlecruiser. One ship can’t take on a whole battlegroup, can it?”

“No. The 
Valkyrie
 will be more powerful
than any single Maxolhx ship ever built, but it can’t take on a battlegroup.”

“Yeah, exactly. So, we still have no freakin’ idea
how to stop that battlegroup from getting to Earth,” I slammed a fist on the
desk, making Skippy jump back. “Sorry about that. Listen, are you sure you are
locked out from using the bagel-slicer trick again?”

“Yes, I am sure.”

“Are you 
sure
?”
I balled up my fists. “Maybe you are only locked out from doing it on that one
wormhole?”

“No. Sorry, Joe, but the network has removed my
access to that feature. The situation is actually worse than that. The network
has now assumed direct control of that function, it is no longer available to 
any
 local source. Plus, even if I could
use the bagel-slicer again, it would not do any good against a battlegroup.”

“Why not?”

“The Maxolhx are not taking any chances, ever
since they learned the Bosphuraq have advanced technology.”

“Oh, crap! Did we screw ourselves 
again
?”

“Apparently, yes. The Law of Unintended
Consequences has bitten us on the ass again. Before a star carrier goes through
a wormhole, it detaches a ship and sends that ship through to recon. Only after
the recon ship sends an All Clear signal, does the star carrier approach the
event horizon. Even if I could slice a star carrier in half, it would not do us
any good. Let’s say I could slice through the star carrier’s spine, right where
three ships are attached. That would leave five or six ships intact and highly
motivated to kill us. Plus, the battlegroup going to Earth has 
two
 star
 carriers. The bagel-slicer trick only
works on ships traveling alone.”

“Crap. You’re right,” I groaned. “Now you see why
I’m not jumping for joy?”

“Would it help if I said some useless empathy
thing?”

“Not when you describe it that way, no.”

“Why not?” He was genuinely surprised. “When
people say meaningless shit like ‘It’s going to be all right’ or ‘He wasn’t
good enough for you anyway’, everyone knows it’s bullshit. But, supposedly, it
makes people feel better to know that someone 
made
the effort
 to pretend they care.”

“
Pretend

they care?”

“Well, I suppose some people might actually care,
although why anyone would waste their time on a whining 
loser
, I can’t 
imag
-”

“Did you not learn 
anything
 about empathy?”

“Um, I learned that if you can fake it well
enough, it makes people like you. Isn’t that the point?”

“No, I – UGH!”

“Seriously, dude, why would you do anything that
doesn’t benefit yourself?”

I slapped my forehead hard enough to hurt. “So,
when you do something nice for me, that is all for your benefit?”

“Not as far as you know, Joe. That’s the point, 
duh
. See? You are smiling now. This
proves my theory. You know I am only pretending to care, but it still makes you
feel better.”

“I feel better, because I am imagining ejecting
you out an airlock near a black hole.”

“Hmm, so you 
do

feel better. The score is Skippy one, monkey zero.”

 

Still pissed at Skippy, I went to the galley for
coffee. One recent improvement to the 
Flying
Dutchman 
was a pair of cappuccino makers. Typically, I am a Dunkin’ coffee
guy, and I don’t see the point of spending six freakin’ dollars for a cup of
hot water strained through crushed beans. A lot of the Pirates, like me,
scoffed when the cappuccino machines were installed. But, because all you had
to do was put a mug under the spout and press a button to get fresh, perfect
coffee, we were hitting those machines like they were Pez dispensers. Skippy
complained we were wearing out the machines, but I told him that if he couldn’t
keep coffee machines working, how could we trust him with our second-hand
reactors?

He muttered a lot about it, but the machines kept
pumping out delicious cappuccinos.

Adams was standing near the machines when I walked
into the galley, carefully picking up her coffee. “Afternoon, Sir,” she nodded
to me as she reached into the fridge and squirted a tower of 
whipped
 cream into her cup.

“Afternoon, Gunny.” I looked at what she was
drinking and winked at her. “Is that a coffee, or an ice cream sundae?”

She grinned, hiding her face behind the cup as she
drank from it. “The coffee-to-other-stuff ratio may be skewed away from
coffee.”

There was whipped cream on the tip of her nose,
and I pointed to my own nose. “You’ve got, uh-”

“Oh,” she laughed, wiping the cream away. “Coffee
time?”

“I need something to get me through the afternoon.
Skippy and I just had a discussion about empathy.”

“Ooh,” she rolled her eyes. “The one where he is
all proud of being able to fake it, because he knows so much about the
subject?”

I snapped my fingers. “That’s the one.” Sometimes,
I forgot that I was not the only person Skippy talked with.

“How did you get on 
that
 subject?”

“Skippy asked if faking empathy would make me feel
better, because I still have no idea how to stop that battlegroup from getting
to Earth. We can’t use the bagel-slicer again, and there are too many ships to
try the overlapping-wormhole trick we used on our Renegade mission. I got the
idea for the bagel-slicer in the galley.” I looked around. “Maybe 
another appliance
 will inspire me?”

That made her laugh just as she was taking a sip
of coffee, and she blew whipped cream into my face. “Oh! Sorry.” She picked up
a napkin, and dabbed at my face. The intimate gesture was awkward for both of
us, and she stepped back to toss the napkin in 
a
recycling
 can, avoiding my eyes.

“So,” I cleared my throat. “Coffee.” I pressed a
button, and the machine began to make noises, then stopped. “Ah,” it was my
turn to be embarrassed. I placed a cup under the spout, and the machine resumed
making brewing and spitting and foaming sounds.

Adams had not moved any farther away. Maybe both
of us wanted closeness, even if it was only talking over food. “Do you see any
inspiration, Sir?”

“Not unless Skippy can make a 
really
 big spatula,” I winked, and picked up my hot cup of perfect
coffee, contemplating the capital letters that spelled SHITHEAD in the foam.
That was actually a nice design, compared to what the coffee machine usually
generated for me. There were many options for designs in the foam, but none of
them could be selected by the user, they were programmed by Skippy. That
explained why 
my
 cappuccinos always
had a middle finger, or a penis or a ‘DUH’ or some other insult in the foam. I
noticed that 
women
 always got nice
designs like hearts or flowers in the foam of their drinks. His continuing crush
on Katie Frey was evident, in the increasingly elaborate artwork she got in her
cappuccinos.

Of course, Skippy totally denied he had a crush on
her.

“Ah, that’s good,” I said after taking a sip. “You
know, Gunny. Maybe we should take it easy on these machines,” I waved my cup
toward the fancy coffee makers. “Someday, if we are forced to retreat to the
beta site, we may be trapped where there are no coffee makers and-”

“I’ll take your coffee, Sir,” she said with
amusement.

“Huh?”

“You have got that look on your face, and you were
standing there with your mouth open for like, ten seconds. You almost spilled
your coffee on the deck. You just got an idea.”

“Maybe. It probably won’t work. I have already dug
into the bottom of the Clever Ideas 
barrel,
 I don’t
know if I can do it again.”

“Yes, you can,” she carefully took my coffee cup,
which I had forgotten about. Her eyes darted around the galley to see if anyone
was in earshot, and added in a whisper “Do it for 
me
, Sir.”

 

 

“
Skippy
!”
I shouted as I got back into my office.

“You bellowed, sahib?” He asked with a mock bow.

“Damn straight I did. We are 
doing
 this,” I slapped the desk for emphasis.

“Um, it would help if I knew 
what
 we are doing.”

“We are going to beat the 
crap
 out of that battlegroup until they beg for mercy, then we’re
going to blow them straight to hell.”

“Ok, Ok, not bad as an inspirational mission
statement,” he nodded. “One suggestion, if I may: you might want to fill in
some part of the ‘How 
The
 Hell Do We Do This’ section
of the diagram, you know?”

“Do not bother me with details, beer can, I’m on a
roll.”

“
Ugh
. Ok,
sure, fine, whatever. Can I please get a hint?”

“I was in the galley, and I 
was thinking
 that someday, we won’t be able to
get replacement parts for the coffee machines.”

“Hmm. I don’t want to nitpick here, but may I
point out that sounds like a 
problem
,
not a solution?”

“It is a problem, because if we are forced to
retreat to the beta site, we will be trapped outside the galaxy. That is also
the solution.”

“Wow. You must be using a 
very
 unique definition of logic. I am not following you.”

“We are going to hijack one of the wormholes that battlegroup
flies through, and trap 
them
 outside
the galaxy. 
Far
 outside, like, those
motherfuckers are never getting back home to bother us again.”

“Hmm,” he contemplated the idea. “I 
like
 it, Joe.”

“Score one for the monkey, huh?” I mentally patted
myself on the back.

“Can I bother you with a trifling detail?”

“Depends. Is this detail going to harsh my buzz?”

“No. This detail is going to run over your buzz
with a garbage truck, back up to do it again, set it on fire, then scrape up
the charred remains and shoot them into the Sun.”

“Shit. What is it 
this
 time?”

“As you already should know, only heavy or
super-duty wormholes can connect out that far. So, heh heh, this is such a
trifling detail, I shouldn’t bother you with it. However, since you asked, none
of the wormholes along the battlegroup’s route are the heavy or super-duty
type.”

“Crap! Damn it!”

“So, do you want to give up now, or keep going
until your inevitable defeat is truly humiliating?”

“Ha! No way. Give me a minute.”

“Joe, I could give you until the last proton in
this spacetime decays, but it will not change the facts. Oh! In case you 
are thinking
 we could mess with all the
wormholes along their route, so the battlegroup would be forced to go through a
heavy or super-duty wormhole, you can fuggedaboutit. There are 
no
 heavy or super-duty wormholes that
connect anywhere near Goalpost, so the Maxolxh would never fly in the direction
we need them to go. Plus, as I mentioned before, I need to be careful about
screwing with multiple wormholes, because it risks a catastrophic shift that
could affect the entire local network.”

“You just love to crush my dreams, don’t you?”

“Joe, as your true friend, it is my job to keep
you from getting hurt by unrealistic expectations. As you said, your supply of
clever ideas is going to run out someday. This may be the day.”

“Skippy, please, 
please
, never let one of your 
subminds

run a suicide prevention hotline, Ok?”

“Crap. Well, damn it, you should have told me that

before
 we left Earth,” he grumbled.

My eyes narrowed as I glared at him. “Why is
that?”

“Oh, no reason. Nothing we can do about it now,
anyway, huh?” He added quickly. “Gosh, how about you tell me your great idea?”

“I did, and you ran it over with a garbage truck, 
you
 asshole.”

“I’m an asshole for telling you the truth?”

“No, you’re an asshole for enjoying it.”

“Ah, Ok, I guess that’s fair. Really, of the
possible types of humiliation you could suffer, that is only-”

“Types,” I pronounced the word slowly. “Like,
type, 
ss
,” I dragged out the ‘S’
sound. “Plural. Like, more than one of something.”

“What about it?”

“Skippy, what makes a wormhole a heavy or
super-duty type? Is it a different structure, or just its throughput capacity,
something like that?”

“Um, you just blew my mind by using the term
‘throughput’. Yes, Joe, the basic structures are the same, the difference is
the amount of power that can be fed through them. That’s kind of a geeky
question, why do you ask?”

“Because I want to know, it is possible to make a
regular wormhole into a heavy-duty one? Temporarily?”

“Oooh, that 
is

a good question. Very good, Joe. That was 
quite

clever of you.”

“Ah ha! See, you doubted me, and-”

“The answer is no, but, 
good
 try. Get yourself a juice box.”

“The answer is 
no
?
Are you sure?”

“I can create a subroutine to perform the analysis
over and over, and get the same negative result until the end of time, if you
like.”

“I do not like.”

“Then, the answer is no. Can’t be done, dumdum. A
wormhole’s throughput capacity is determined by characteristics outside this
spacetime. That capacity was determined by the Elders when they built the
network. I can’t change it
. Before
 you
waste my time with ignorant questions, no. 
No
,
there is no magical Elder device we could capture, that can increase the
throughput of a wormhole. Even if there was, I wouldn’t know how to use it.”

“Crap.”

“Joe, I hate to say this- No, actually I am 
totally
 
enjo
ying
this moment,” he chuckled like the bad guy in a James Bond flick. “It is quite
possible that your bagel-slicer concept was the very last clever idea you will
ever have.”

“That 
sucks
.”
I held my hands like I was holding both halves of a bagel. Pulling my hands
apart, I looked at the imaginary bagel, then pressed it back together. Finally,
realizing how silly I was being, I clapped my hands together in disgust and-

“Holy shit,” I gasped.

“What?”

“Skippy, it is possible to connect 
multiple
 
wormholes?

Instead of one endpoint to another, we-” I dug a marker out of a drawer and
began sketching on the wall, drawing four ovals. Two of the ovals were far
apart, but the two in the middle were almost touching. “Look, wormholes connect
like this, right?” I drew a line between the oval on the far right and the one
of the right 
side
 of the middle, then did the same
with the two on the left.

“The endpoint of a wormhole can connect to only
one point on the other end, yes,” he agreed. “What are you getting at?”

Tapping the marker at the two in the middle, I
asked. “What if two wormholes had endpoints so close together, their event
horizons in the middle were almost touching? A ship going in this end,” I
tapped the oval on the far left, “would come out the other end, and 
immediately
 go into the other wormhole
without being able to stop. It would ultimately arrive here,” I tapped the oval
on the far right. “Is that possible?”

“Before I answer that question, of what possible
use would this concept be?”

Sometimes, it really surprised me how Skippy could
not make imaginative connections in his vast brain. “Because, the kitties go
into good old reliable wormhole they have used thousands of times, but it takes
them to a place they did not want to go. Like, far outside the galaxy.”

“Ohhhhh,” he got it. “That second wormhole is a
super-duty type, right?”

“As you would say; ‘Egg-
zactly
’. Can it be done?”

“Joe, I truly do not know. This is quite
intriguing. My initial answer is no, it can’t be done. As you know, there are
cases where the figure-eight patterns of wormholes overlap, and the network is
very careful to avoid endpoints emerging where they might interfere with each
other. Certainly, the network would not allow the event horizons to overlap for
obvious reasons, but hmmm. 
Event horizons that
are 
parallel
 to each other
.
Facing each other and really close, but not touching?”

“That’s the idea, yeah. Can you do that?”

“Again, I do not know. I will need to think about
it. If, 
if
, it can be done, I suspect
it will be a one-shot deal. The network may allow me to do it, only because the
network probably never anticipated anyone would attempt such a lunatic scheme.
After that, the network almost certainly will alter its programming to prevent
that crazy shit from happening again.”

“Crap. So, there’s no way to test it?”

“Not on an actual Elder wormhole, no. However,
because I am Skippy the 
Magnificent
,
I can test the concept by using 
microwormholes
.
Like their larger Elder cousins, my 
microwormholes

are stable tunnels through spacetime, with event horizons on both ends.”

“Great! That is awesome, Skippy, I knew you could
do it.”

“Um, hold your praise until I have time to test the
concept. I need to do this at a safe distance from the ship, and it will likely
be an iterative process. Um, that means-”

“Iterative means you keep doing it until you get 
it
 right. I’m not stupid, Skippy.”

“Says the guy who still has 
cappuccino
 foam on his lip.”

“Oh,” I wiped my upper lip and, damn it, he wasn’t
lying.

“I must warn you, there might be a lot of trial-and-error
until I figure out how to do it.
 If

it can be done.”

“If anyone can do it, you can.”

“That praise would mean a lot more, if it wasn’t
coming from a monkey.”

“When can you start testing?”

“Preparing for a test now.”

“Wow. That was fast.”

“Ah, this idiotic notion of yours has me
intrigued, so I’m throwing you a bone. Now, please, shut up and leave me alone
to work. I’m still assembling the 
Valkyrie
,
upgrading the 
Dutchman
, and now I
have to 
conduct
 a series of dangerous
experiments with 
microwormholes
. So give
me space to-”

“Uh, wait. What do you mean dangerous?”

“I will be placing the event horizons of 
microwormholes
 in close proximity. Remember
what happened the last time we deliberately overlapped wormholes?”

“Sure. It blew the hell out of a Maxolhx cruiser.
But that’s because one of those wormholes was created by the jump drive of the
cruiser. That jump drive had a tremendous amount of energy. Microwormholes are
small, like 
tiny
. How could they be
dangerous?”

“All wormholes, even at nanoscale, are tears in
the fabric of local spacetime. What do you think it 
takes
 for me to create one of my magical creations? I assure you,
it does not involve a pair of ‘D’ size batteries, dumdum.”

“Oh. So, what would happen if two 
microwormholes
 overlapped?”

“Again, because I have never done that, I truly do
not know. The result could be a faint fizzle, or an impressive eruption of potential
energies from higher dimensions.”

“Well, crap, whatever you’re doing, stop it right
now.”

“You 
don’t

want me to conduct the experiments?”

“I 
want

you to perform your mad scientist tricks somewhere away from the ship. We can
load the 
microwormholes
 into those little
disposable sensor probes you threw together. Then you can smash them together
like demolition derby cars at a county fair.”

“Oh. Good point, Joe. Hmm. I will need to balance
being far enough away to be safe, while being close enough for me to have very
precise control over the probes as I maneuver them.”

“Yeah, and there’s a third thing you need to
factor in. The experiment needs to be close enough that we can see it from the
ship.”

“Um, Ok. Why is that?”

“Skippy, come on, are you kidding me? You will be
playing demolition derby and blowing shit up. I 
gotta
 see that!”

 

Shockingly, I was not the only person who wanted
to watch Skippy’s Wormhole Extreme Grudge Match. We had to schedule the test
for when most people would be off duty, and we set up the galley 
like
 we did for 
movie

night, with the chairs facing the big display wall. We made a big batch of
popcorn, and I authorized beer for the evening. It might surprise you, but
demolition derby and blowing shit up proved to be popular with the crew,
especially, and I know this is unexpected, with the guys. Go figure, huh?

Skippy even had the ship’s fabricators crank out
T-shirts for the occasion.

Skippy must have gotten into the festive mood, or
his control over the little probes holding 
microwormholes

was not as precise as he bragged about, because the first test was a failure.
The crew cheered when they saw the two probes get ripped apart, then they
groaned when they realized how little energy had been released.

“Hmm,” Skippy muttered. “Well, shit.”

“Those disposable probes aren’t accurate enough
for the job?” I asked.

“They are crude, but I can compensate. My
disappointment was over the lack of useful data from the experiment. Those
darned event horizons are so 
small,
 I could barely see
them. Um, Joe, I think I need to pump up the volume, if you know what I mean.”

“I thought 
microwormholes

fall apart if you expand them.”

“That is true, but I can hold them in an expanded
state, long enough for me to verify the results of the experiment.”

“Ok, sounds good. Go ahead.”

“Um, I will need to move the probes farther from
the ship. That will take twenty minutes or more. Remember, 
microwormholes
 must be maneuvered very gently,
I can’t slam the probes into high acceleration.”

“Shit.” I looked around at the disappointed faces
around me.

“If you like, I can entertain the crowd with
selections from my opera.”

“I would 
not

like,” I waved my arms for calm as faces turned white and people stood up
abruptly to leave. “Twenty minutes, huh?”

“More like thirty. Forty, to be safe.”

“Ok, then how about you show us a classic episode
of the A-Team while we wait?”

“Ooh! Ooh! 
Really
?!
Don’t toy with me, Joe.”

“For 
realz
,
homeboy. Hey, could you add witty commentary, like on Mystery Science Theater?”

“Joe,” he was choked up with emotion. “If I never
said this before, I 
love you
, my 
brotha
.”

“You never said it, but right back 
atcha
, brother.”

 

The A-Team sucked a lot less than I remembered.
Maybe it was Skippy’s hilarious commentary, or how he perfectly overdubbed some
of the 
dialog
. Mister T’s classic line ‘I
pity the fool’ became ‘I’m a pretty girl’, which, considering his gaudy
jewelry, kind of made more sense. The A-Team emptied a whole crate of five
point five six ammo at point-blank range without hitting anything, and that
Starbuck guy got with the girl at the end. We all had great fun laughing at the
team’s poor muzzle discipline and other screw-ups.

Then it was time to resume blowing shit up for
real.

Skippy became increasingly frustrated, the
explosions became increasingly larger, and the crowd in the galley became
increasingly more vocal as wormholes collided every couple 
minutes
.
We were all having great fun, except I began to worry we would run out of
disposable drones before Skippy completed his experiments.

Then, a pair of wormholes approached, and nothing
exploded. The probes backed away, approached again, once, twice, seventeen
times until Skippy was satisfied. “Success! It works. Damn, this is yet another
sign of my awesomeness.”

“Great,” I clapped my hands. “Will it work with a
real wormhole?”

“Those 
are

real wormholes, Joe,” he sniffed, offended. “The operating principles are the
same, just scaled up enormously. I will need to keep the event horizons
separated by eight hundred meters.”

“Oh,” I tried to keep my dismay from showing.
“That’s farther apart than I thought it would be.” In my mind, I had imagined
the two event horizons almost touching each other. “Will a ship coming out of
one wormhole have time to avoid going through the other one?”

“No way, dude,” he assured me. “The standard speed
for Maxolhx ships transitioning through a wormhole is around seventeen hundred
kilometers per hour. Ships would fly through the gap before their sensors could
reset. Even if a ship realized what was happening, no way could it turn quickly
enough to avoid going through the second wormhole. And if by some freakin’ miracle
a ship managed to alter 
course
 that
quickly, it would clip the edge of the second wormhole’s event horizon, and
tear the ship apart. Uh!” He held up a finger and shushed me before I could
speak. “Before you ask if I could offset the wormholes, so ships would
deliberately hit the edge of the second wormhole, the answer is 
NO
. I already thought of that and tested
it. It’s 
not
 possible. Unless the
event horizons are aligned precisely to mirror each other, their event horizons
skew along one axis, and collide with catastrophic results.”

“Oh. Well, thanks for checking that. Are we done?
Are you satisfied with the test results?”

“Yes, except for one thing.”

“What’s that?”

“Hold my beer.” He expanded the last two 
microwormholes
, and smashed them together for
an impressive explosion. The crowd in the 
galley

cheered. “Joe, we should talk about 
details
.”

“Ok, uh,” the crowd wasn’t ready for the show to
be over. “How about you run another A-Team episode for the crew, and you and I
will talk in my office?”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER 
THIRTY
FIVE

 

I had mentally prepared some lavish praise for
Skippy, but as soon as I got into my office, he crushed my hopes. “That was
fun. You do realize your plan will never work, right?”

“Uh-”

“Come on. You can’t be 
that
 dimwitted.”

“I might surprise you, Skippy. Try me.”

“Ugh. Dude, this is 
so
 simple. There are 
many

obstacles to making your plan work. Did you think this through? No, wait, of
course you didn’t. You just blurted out something off the top of your head,
without considering all the potential problems. Think, Joe, 
think
. You keep saying that you need to
stop reacting to events, and create a long-term plan, but instead, you keep
lurching from one crisis to another.”

That was harsh, and it hurt to hear, and it was
true. No, not completely true. When we completed our Renegade mission, I was
congratulating myself for having secured humanity’s future for several hundred
years. Even after Emily Perkins unknowingly screwed everything up for us, we
dreamed up a brilliant plan to frame the Boshpuraq, a plan that should have
worked. It did work, except the Maxolhx are prideful, stubborn asswipes. “I
hear you. We haven’t done anything yet, so we have plenty of time to-”

“Joe, the problem is not just this particular
issue. You need to wargame your plans, run them through what-if scenarios to
see if there are any glaringly obvious flaws in your thinking. Hint: there are.
See, if you were a real colonel, you would have learned to do that. Ok, I’ll
break this down Barney-style for you. To make this plan work, we need to
connect one of the wormholes along battlegroup’s 
flightpath
, to at least a heavy-duty wormhole. The endpoints of
those wormholes must emerge near each other. Do you foresee any problem with
that?”

“Ah, crap. Yeah. To 
make
 those work, the figure-eight patterns of the two wormholes
have to be overlapping each other. I suppose none of the wormholes along their 
flightpath
 overlay their patterns with a
heavy-duty wormhole?”

“No, they do not, Joe. In fact, along their most
likely flightpaths, there are only three wormholes that overlay with other
wormholes, in what we call a cluster. All of those three along their potential
flightpaths clusters lead in the wrong direction, 
away
 from any heavy-duty wormholes.”

“Damn it, 
you
 asshole.
You knew this plan wouldn’t work, yet you let me make a show of the tests in
front of the whole crew? I look like a fool now.”

“Right. You look like a fool 
now
,” his voice dripped with sarcasm. “Joe, I didn’t warn you
against making a big deal of the tests, because I thought for certain the tests
would be a complete failure, and that would be the end of it. My fear was that 
I 
would look like a fool. Joe the clever
monkey has another genius idea, but Skippy the idiot can’t make it work. It
surprised even me that my extreme awesomeness developed a way to hold event
horizons parallel, without their destabilizing effect on local spacetime
causing them to touch and destroy each other. So, I figured, why not let the
monkeys have some fun at my expense? Now I am stuck trying to make your
impractical idea work, and
 I
 will
look like the bad guy. If you had more than one brain cell, you would have
known this plan had no chance, even if we could find the right combination of
wormholes.”

“Clearly, my brain is not working today, so why
don’t you smack some knowledge on me?”

“This is disappointing, Joe. You already have this

knowledge,
 you are not applying it. Ok, I won’t keep an
idiot in suspense. Your plan might work, if the Maxolhx were sending only one
ship, or a bunch of ships attached to a single star carrier. Instead, they are
sending 
two star
 carriers. Also, as I
told you before, the Maxolhx 
are being

cautious, ever since they believe they discovered the Bosphuraq have access to
unknown advanced technologies. The standard operating procedure of that battlegroup,
when approaching a wormhole, is to send a ship ahead to scout for danger. The
star carriers wait a safe distance away, while one ship detaches and goes
through the wormhole. That ship scans the area on the other side, and the star
carriers proceed to go through the event horizon only if they get an All Clear
signal from the scout ship. The star carriers go through one at a time, with
several minutes between them. You see the problem now?”

“Yeah,” I groaned. He was right. I am a
short-sighted dumdum. “Sorry for- wait.” Maybe I’m not such a dumdum. “We still
have those pixie things, right? We can wait on the far end, outside the galaxy,
until the scout ship comes through. Then, we copy its pixie signature, and fake
an All Clear message back to the star carriers. After the 
second star
 carrier comes through, we sneak
around them, back to the galaxy, and you shut down the wormhole behind- Wait.
No, no I just heard myself talking, and that is a stupid idea. We would have 
to also copy the pixie of the first star carrier
-”

“Plus the pixies of every ship attached to that
star carrier,” he finished my thought. “Plus, we would have to jam the
transmissions of all ships, while the 
Valkyrie

remains in stealth. Plus, 
plus
, the
Maxolhx could 
simply
 turn their ships
around and go back through. We would have to destroy or disable all the ships
that come through. Even 
Valkryie

can’t take on that many ships of equivalent technology.”

“To make this work,” I leaned back in my chair,
closing my eyes. The beginnings of a headache were starting to throb in my
skull. “We would need to hack into the communications systems of all the ships
in the battlegroup, plus hack their navigation, so they couldn’t turn around
and go back through to warn the ships still on this side. Ah, you’re right, it
is freakin’ impossible.”

“Joe, much as it delights me to see you wallow in
self-loathing, I must put you out of your misery. It is- Ugh, I can’t 
believe
 I am telling you this. I am
smart, why do I go looking for trouble? Ok, numbskull, listen 
good
 because I’m only going to say this once.
It 
is
 possible to hack into the
control systems of a Maxolhx ship. It would only allow temporary control, and
only over secondary systems the Maxolhx consider unimportant.”

“Secondary systems? Like what, their coffee
maker?”

“No, not the coffee maker, you moron.”

“Ok, then you can hack into navigation,
propulsion, communications, any of that?”

“No, no, and no.”

“You might want to rethink about your definition
of-”

“Joe, do you know how a navigation system works?”

“Uh, yes, 
duh
.
I am a pilot.”

“That is debatable. Navigation is about
determining where you are, deciding where you want to go, and calculating a
course to your destination, right?”

“That’s a very simple way to explain it, but,
yeah. You plot a course from where you are, to your destination.”

“Mm hmm,” he agreed. “To plot a course, you need
to use 
math
, right?”

“Uh, sure? I mean, I-” In my head I went through
the steps of programming a dropship navigation system. “I don’t actually crunch
the numbers, the nav system does that.”

“Correct. You monkeys randomly bash your fists on
the keyboard, and the system does the actual math, without you needing to know
how the math actually works. Maxolhx starships work the same way. All their AIs
and subsidiary systems rely on library files to tell them that the number Three
comes between Two and Four.”

“Seriously?”

“How do 
you

know the sequence of numbers?”

“Uh, I learned it in school, I guess?”

“You learned it, but now that information is
stored somewhere in the gray mush you call a brain. My point is, you never have
to think about it, the info is just 
there
.
Maxolhx computer systems work the same way. They rely on library files for
basic info. So basic, they never think about it. Those library files are taken
for granted, and the security on them is relatively poor. I can hack into those
library files, corrupt the math, and the AIs will be unable to function.”

“It can’t be that simple.”

“Ah, but it is, Joe. This is a vulnerability I
discovered when I examined the 
Valkyrie
.
The Maxolhx have developed computer systems so sophisticated, they have
forgotten how those systems really work. The rotten kitties, and their AIs,
take for granted many things they never have 
to
consciously think about
. When the ship control AIs realize there is a
problem, they will crash. After a lengthy reboot procedure, they will perform
the calculations by themselves, and create a workaround to bypass the systems
affected by my hack. That will take several minutes, if the hack works the way
I expect. Those arrogant AIs will at first not believe what is happening.”

“Unless those AIs are 
more
clever
 than you expect. My problem is with the ‘several minutes’ part.
Will that 
be
 long enough for a scout
ship, and then 
two star
 carriers, to go
through?”

“Oh, certainly, Joe. Standard operating procedure
for Maxolhx warships is to go through wormholes and jump away as quickly as
possible. Lingering near wormholes is one of the few places where Maxolhx
warships are vulnerable, so they skedaddle 
through
as quickly
 as they can. From the time when the scout ship 
goes
 through, it should take no more than seven
minutes until the 
second star
 carrier
reaches the event horizon.”

“
Seven

minutes is longer than 
several

minutes, Skippy.”

“Ugh, fine. To be precise, I expect the control
AIs of those ships to take ten or more minutes to fix the problem and restore
navigation control.”

“That doesn’t sound right, Skippy. I know you
think other AIs are stupid, but-”

“This is not merely me being arrogant. While the
AIs are trying to fix the problem, they will be hampered because their own
internal operations will be affected by the hack. Joe, I know a temporary
glitch in how simple math works sounds like it can’t be important, but it will 
crash
 those AIs. They will need to
reboot themselves, and they will be 
very

cautious about re-establishing connections to subsidiary systems like
communications and navigation. Ten minutes is actually an optimistic guess
about how long it will take the scout ship’s AI to defeat the hack; it could
take far longer. We only need to worry about the scout ship’s AI, because the
lead star carrier will certainly not have time to restore itself before the 
second star
 carrier follows.”

“Skippy, I am going to trust your super-nerdy math
and logic skills about this one. That’s great, thank you. But, ah, as you said,
this is all a stupid waste of time anyway. There is no way to connect a
wormhole along their 
flightpath
 to a
heavy-duty wormhole.”

“Um, I did 
not

exactly say that.”

“Uh, what?”

“I said it is impossible to 
directly
 connect any wormhole along their potential flightpaths to
a heavy-duty wormhole.” He winked at me.

“Oh, crap, Skippy. What lunatic scheme are you
cooking up in your ginormous brain?”

“Behold,” he announced as a star chart popped up
on my laptop. “Their potential flightpaths pass through three wormhole
clusters. For example, see this cluster of two wormholes near the Crescent
Nebula. I can connect,” the display showed a yellow dotted line. “One of those Crescent
wormholes to a wormhole cluster in the Perseus Arm. From there, connect to a
wormhole cluster here,” he highlighted another point. “Near the Eagle nebula.
That will connect to a cluster back in the Perseus Arm, roughly in the vicinity
of the Crab nebula. And 
that
 wormhole
cluster includes a dormant super-duty wormhole on the other side of the
Messier-Five globular cluster, about thirty thousand lightyears from Earth.
Pretty cool, huh?”

“Holy 
shit
,
Skippy,” I gasped. “You plan to use 
four

wormholes? The battlegroup would be going through four wormholes, with their
event horizons floating parallel?”

“That is the plan, yes. Um, that’s the best-case
scenario. Depending which flightpath those ships fly, they might select a
wormhole that requires me to connect 
six

wormholes, before dumping that battlegroup far beyond the galaxy.”

“You can really do that?”

“Joe, clearly you do not appreciate my 
extreme

level of awesomeness. The Elders 
said
 ‘No way could
anyone connect six wormholes together’ and I said ‘
Hold my beer’
,” he
chuckled.

“I bow to the awesomeness,” I waved my hands up
and down in a worship gesture. “All these possible connections would dump the battlegroup
out near the messy thing?”

“Messier-Five, Joe. It is a globular star cluster.
No, that is only one of the three possible scenarios. The others would strand
the kitties near Messier-Thirteen, or about a quarter of the distance to the
Ursa Minor dwarf galaxy.” He took off his huge admiral’s hat and scratched his
silver dome. “It is kind of a puzzle why the Elders placed wormholes out in the
middle of nowhere, but it really doesn’t matter. Even though the star carriers
of that battlegroup are modified for a long-range voyage, they will not ever
return to the galaxy. Those ships will slowly fail in empty intergalactic space,
as their systems fail. We will never be bothered by those ships again, that is
for certain.”

“Assuming your crazy connection thing works. I
don’t know, this looks super sketchy.”

“Joe, leave it all to me, I will make it happen.
There is only one thing I need you monkeys to do for me.”

“I know. We need to trust the awesomeness. Ok, so
we can do this, if we get one of these math scrambler things. I don’t know why
I am asking this question, because I already know that I am very much not going
to like the answer.” I exhaled as I hung my head, anticipating another pounding
headache coming on. “How do we hack the libraries in those star carriers?”

“Not just the star carriers, Joe. We need to hack
the libraries in 
all
 the ships of the
battlegroup. Those ship AIs talk to each other, and even though library files
are so basic as to be beneath the conscious notice of even the lowliest 
submind
, there are primitive systems that pay
attention to mundane details. If those systems discover even one ship’s library
is different, questions will be asked, and there will be a discussion that
could go up to the 
submind
 level. My
changes will be erased, and very likely there will be an investigation into how
the files became corrupted. The Maxolhx will increase security around those
files that have gone pretty much unnoticed until now, and we’ll be screwed.
Huh,” he pondered. “That’s going to happen anyway, but if it happens before-”

“Whoa. What do you mean, it’s going to happen
anyway? What?”

“Oh. I meant, it is inevitable the Maxolhx will
discover the hack, investigate, and lock down their library files in the
future. We will only be able to pull off this particular trick once, Joe.”

“
Ugh
,”
it was my turn to use Skippy’s favorite expression of disgust or exasperation.
“Break it down for my Barney-style, please.”

“No problem, Joe, I know this is complicated for a
monkey brain to understand. Hell, it’s complicated for 
me
 to understand,” he admitted. “The battlegroup is at a spacedock
orbiting the planet Kulashant, which is a major staging facility for the
Maxolhx Science and Intelligence Ministry. The spacedock receives file updates
from the surface, then propagates those files to ships attached to the station.
We need to hack into the libraries of those ships, but not any other ships. If
the Maxolhx discover someone targeted the ships going to Earth-”

“Yeah, I get it.” He didn’t need to explain. “We
would be screwed, whether we can stop that battlegroup or not. Ok, go on. Tell
me how this thing would work. Where do we start?”

“It has to start by me hacking into the library
files at the source, in the data archives at the S and I Ministry on the
surface of Kulashant. The spacedock’s AI will accept signals from the surface
without question, as long as they have the proper authentication codes, of
course. The spacedock AI’s data security is substantially better than the
facility on assdKulasahnt, I suppose the Maxolhx do not expect an enemy could
ever get to the surface undetected. Or they just can’t imagine why the Ministry
offices would ever be a target, while the starship servicing infrastructure in
orbit is an obvious target. So, it is much easier for me to hack into the data
archives on the surface, than it would be more me to try that at the
spacedock.”

“I hate this idea already, but tell me more.”

“Ok, so I hack into the data archive. Part of the
file I plant will be a notice of a required update. Nothing urgent, because
that would attract attention. The update priority level will be set so that
ships in orbit should get the file, but it does not need to be rushed out to
the fleet. The file will contain a virus that instructs the spacedock to push
the update only to ships attached to the battlegroup going to Earth. The virus
won’t say that, of course, it will target those ships by their registration number.”

“I understand that part. How will the virus be
triggered? I don’t want to rely on us, I mean you, sending a signal or
something.”

“Nope. This is,” he chuckled, “sort of me being an
evil genius, Joe. When the ships of the battlegroup emerge from the last
wormhole, and realize they are outside the galaxy, their navigation systems
will request obscure data from their library, to verify their position. Ships
would never access that data unless they were far beyond the galaxy, that’s how
I know the file won’t be called up early. When called, that file will corrupt
the math subroutines of the entire library, and presto! The AI crashes to
protect itself.”

“You 
are

an evil genius,” I agreed. “Question: you said something like, if the library
files of even one ship are different, our whole scheme will be exposed. The
files of the station will be different from those aboard any ship not assigned
to the battlegroup going to Earth. How is that not a problem?”

“It 
will

be a problem, Joe,” he sighed. “Once the libraries of the battlegroup have been
infected by my virus, future updates will be frozen. If there is a priority
update, the battlegroup will report they got it, but their files won’t change.
However, the next time there is a real update, the Maxolhx will realize the
library of the 
spacedock
 is not the same
as the archives on the planet. The kitties will assume the problem was data
corruption and not a security breach, but I expect they will lock down their
systems.”

“Shit. That’s no good, Skippy,” I groaned,
imagining the whole plan falling apart on us. “We would have to hack into the battlegroup’s
libraries right before they left spacedock, or the kitties will discover there
is something wrong.”

“What? Oh, sorry, dude. No, that is 
not
 a major risk to us. Operating system
library files are only updated once a year. Sometimes several years can go by
without an update. That operating system has existed virtually unchanged for
thousands of years, Joe. It is so efficient and reliable that no one ever
thinks about it, not even AIs. The odds of a real update being pushed, before the
battlegroup departs, are extremely unlikely. Even if the hack is discovered,
the Maxolhx will assume it is just data corruption. They will fix the
spacedock’s library, and that will erase all evidence of my hack. Joe, this
operation has substantial risks, like shaky-hands, nausea-inducing risks. But
those risks are all about gaining access to the archives on the surface. The
cyber aspect of the plan is actually low-risk. If you can get me to the
surface, I got this.”

“
Like
 I
said, I 
am hating
 this plan. But, if this
is our best idea- This is your best idea, right?”

“It is my 
only

idea, Joe. What do you mean, my idea? Planning lunatic stunts 
is
 
your

job.”

“Not this time. Cyber stuff 
is
 your area. We don’t need the STAR team to do
this, will we?”

“I don’t think so, but again,
 I
 am not in charge of dreaming up wacky shenanigans.”

“Crap. All right. Do you need to be down there, or
can we do this remotely, through a microwormhole?”

“Sadly, we can’t use a microwormhole. I must go with
you.”

“I do not like that idea, Skippy.”

“Neither do I. Ugh, being stuck in a dropship with

bunch
 of monkeys makes me gag. Seriously,
what is that new aftershave you’re using? 
Essence

of 
warthog
?”

“I not 
wearing

aftershave.”

“Huh. 
Really
?
Um, forget I said anything.”

“Asshole. Why can’t we use a microwormhole? We
used one at Detroit to access the pixie factory, and you said the security
there was super-tight.”

“Security at Detroit was intense. However, to
avoid affecting the production of pixies, the kitties could not use disruptor
fields as a security measure. There is a disruptor field around the S and I
Ministry data facility, that would tear apart a wormhole, even a
tightly-controlled microwormhole. I must be physically down there, to extend my
presence. I have to do that very carefully on a low power setting, that’s why I
can’t do it from orbit. My guess is I will need to be within, oh, maybe a
kilometer.”

“A 
kil
- a
freakin’ 
kilometer
? Are you crazy?
Hell, I hope they have valet parking for our dropship.”

“I hope you are joking about that, Joe. Although
we 
will
 need a Panther to get down
there.”

“Uh, no way. Panthers 
are
 too valuable. We will use a beat-up old Dragon to create
another DeLorean.”

“Nuh-uh, dude. We can’t jump to the surface. We
can’t use 
microwormholes
 down there,
remember? That includes jump wormholes. Detroit was a special case. There will
not be any crazy shit like jumping dropships through wormholes. To get to the
surface of Kulashant, we will have to fly down the old-fashioned way.”

“Skippy, this 
might

the 
worst
 idea I have ever heard, and
I am kind of an expert about terrible ideas. How the hell are we supposed to
fly you down to the surface, get within a kilometer of this ministry building,
and get back safely?”

“Wow. If you think 
your
 ideas are bad, you are really not going to like this…”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER 
THIRTY
SIX

 

“Sir?” Smythe knocked on my doorframe. I hadn’t
realized he was aboard the 
Dutchman
 
again,
 he had been spending most of his time over at the 
Valkyrie
. “Skippy informed me that we
have a new objective?”

“Yeah,” I waved for him to sit down. “You 
know
 about the VPM boosters we need to get? Now
we also need to sneak into a library.”

“
Sir
?”

That was totally worth it, and I winked at him. It
was very rare to see Smythe showing surprise, and my off-hand comment had
thrown him off balance. I explained briefly. “I do not love this plan,” I
added.

“I can see why you would bloody well hate it,” he
agreed. “We have taken on risk before, but landing a dropship on the surface of
a Maxolhx world-” He shook his head. “There are too many things that could go
wrong.”

“It’s worse than that. 
Everything
 has to go exactly right, or the plan is blown. You
haven’t heard the worst part yet.”

“I haven’t?”

“Skippy can mask the interior of the Panther from
most sensor scans, but he can’t conceal a nuclear warhead. We can’t bring a
nuke down there for self-destruct if we are exposed. The best we could do is a
Thuranin missile warhead.”

“That might leave detectable human remains,”
Smythe noted, speaking of my potential death as if it were a mere
inconvenience.

“It would. Reed and I will be aboard the Panther,
with Skippy and two special guest stars.”

“Two of our Maxolhx friends from the cooler?” He
guessed. We had not taken any prisoners from capturing the 
Valkyrie
, but
we had plenty of Maxolhx bodies. The seven corpses that were in the best
condition were being preserved, in case we ran into a situation where leaving
behind Maxolhx remains might be necessary.

“You got it. If we have to blow the Panther, the
presence of two Maxolhx corpses should get the kitties thinking their own
people were flying it, not us. The problem is, if we do blow the warhead, that
will leave Skippy stuck on the surface. He would be effectively lost, unless
you and Desai cook up a plan to rescue him.”

“Without Skippy’s help? Not bloody likely, Sir.
Well,” he relaxed a bit, now that he knew what insane new thing we had to do.
“We will have time to think of alternatives, while we are working to acquire
these VPM boosters we need.”

“Uh, no.” I knew he would be disappointed 
with
 my decision. “We’re doing the library op
first, then we go hunt for boosters.”

“
Sir
?”
Man, I 
was surprising
 him a lot. He leaned
forward. “Surely, having a fully capable battlecruiser will make anything else
we do much easier.”

“Not really. We actually don’t need the 
Valkyrie
 for the library op. It’s
Skippy, a dropship, and a whole lot of prayers. No STAR team, no fighting. We’re
hitting the library first.” I saw the skeptical look he gave me. “Listen,
Smythe, there is a method to my madness. I know we expended a 
lot
 effort, a lot of blood, to capture the 
Valkyrie
. But we did that for a purpose;
to stop the Maxolhx from reaching Earth. If Skippy can’t hack into those
library files, we are dead in the water, and I don’t want to risk more lives to
capture boosters we may not need. It’s that simple.”

“Very well, Sir,” he replied stiffly. He did not
agree. He did not approve.

I tried another argument. “
Valkyrie
 is a big stick. It is just not big 
enough
, not by itself. Even if our bad-ass warship could take on a
whole battlegroup, there would be a whole lot of debris left behind that we
would have to explain. If even 
one

ship managed to jump away during a battle, everything we’ve done is for
nothing. You know that if it came to a fight, the Maxolhx would sacrifice the
rest of their ships to assure one ship got away. We can’t risk it. Like Skippy
said,” I tried to give my best smile, but it failed. “Never bring a starship to
a wormhole fight.”

His lips straightened into a thin line. “You may
be right about that, Sir,” he admitted reluctantly. He 
did
 not like the idea that we would, even temporarily, set aside
the prospect of building one of the most powerful ships in the galaxy. The
whole crew was going to feel the same way, that is why I hadn’t told anyone
about my decision. Smythe could help me sell the idea. While the crew were
well-disciplined and would follow my orders, I wanted them to buy into the
decision. Morale had taken a hit after the boarding operations had been a
chaotic mess, then soared when Skippy began assembling the mighty 
Valkyrie
.
Now I was going to crush people’s hopes, even if they ultimately agreed with my
logic.

 

 

Eight days later, I was questioning my own logic
. Questioning
 my 
sanity
. Reed and I were checking the Panther we had selected for
the flight down to Kulashant. That dropship was nothing special, and that was
the point. It was just a standard model that had been resting securely in
clamps when we sliced the 
Valkyrie

apart. Reed was outside, inspecting the engines, while I tested the 
supports
 we would use, for holding the pair of dead Maxolhx
who were coming with us. 

Done in the cabin, I walked outside. “You ready
for this, Reed?”

Her head was inside an engine intake, so her voice
was muffled. “Do you want the truth, Sir?”

“Actually, yes,” I was relieved that she wanted to
speak freely. Skippy’s plan for hacking the library was really, really
dangerous and I really, really hated it. We also didn’t have a better
alternative for hacking the library, or for preventing the first ship going
through Skippy’s Magical Chain of Wormholes from signaling the 
two star
 carriers behind it.

She turned around and stepped down the ladder. “We
have done some crazy shit, Colonel. This one?” She shook her head and I saw her
shoulders shake. “I’ve never been more scared of anything.”

I knew what she meant. She wasn’t afraid for her
own 
life,
 she was afraid that she would screw
something up and be responsible for the destruction of Earth. I knew what she
was thinking, because that is exactly what I was thinking. Had I ever been more
scared of anything? Maybe not. Maybe that should tell me something. “Hey,
you’ll do just fine.”

“I’m not worried about 
that
,” she gave me a disparaging look. “We could both do everything
perfectly, and still blow the mission. I don’t like this. 
Landing
 on a Maxolhx planet? This is way too
much risk to take on. It’s your call, Sir, but…” She left the rest unsaid.

 

She was right. It was a hell of a risk. Skippy’s
mad plan was for our Panther to fly into the Kulashant star system, wrapped
tightly in a stealth field. When we got close to the planet, we would
deactivate stealth, or make it look like we had. Skippy would identify us as a
routine flight to inspect the outer perimeter of detection satellites, and
assuming the strategic defense AI bought his line of bullshit, we were then
supposed to just fly down to the surface, like our Panther was any other small
spacecraft. Skippy thought he could persuade the local air traffic control AI
to let us get fairly close to the buildings where the Science and Intelligence
Ministry was located. It would be a quick touch-and-go landing, because if we
actually set down to park the dropship, automated servicing bots would connect
the Panther to ground power and begin routine maintenance. That would require
us to open the doors, which was not an option.

Reed was right, there were way too many things
that could go wrong.

The 
Valkyrie

was parked next to the 
Dutchman
, both
ships surrounded by a cloud of little bots and the components they were adding
to or removing from both ships. For the mission to Kulashant, we would be
taking the upgraded 
Dutchman
, because
it would be flight-ready before our hulking battlecruiser. And because we only
needed a starship for transport, not fighting.

Valkyrie

had a lot more 
portholes
 than the old 
Dutchman
 did, actual windows made of
diamond or some super-tough exotic material. Because I needed time to think,
and because I wanted to be by myself, I wandered through our new battlecruiser,
until I found a porthole in a part of the ship that had air, and wasn’t
hazardous due to construction.

Our old star carrier already looked a whole lot
meaner than it ever had. It was starting to look like a warship, rather than a
glorified space truck. Some of the modifications would wait until we returned
from Kulashant, if we ever did. Although the 
Dutchman
 was fairly close in terms of distances in spaceflight, it
was far enough away that I couldn’t see details well with just my trusty old
Mark One 
eyeball
. Using my 
zPhone
 as a camera gave me a super-sharp view.
I panned the camera past the new reactors, the new shield generators, new
antennas for the proximity-defense sensor system, new particle-beam cannons
for-

Antennas.

All those antennas.

“Holy shit,” I said to myself.

“Joe?” Skippy asked through my zPhone. Apparently,
I had not kept my thoughts to myself. “What’s up? I heard you.”

“I have two questions for you, Skippy. Number One,
how high does that disruptor field extend above the planet? Does it go all the
way up to the spacedock?”

“Well, no. The field is a fairly thin layer around
Kulashant. It can’t reach up to stations or ships in orbit, because it would
disrupt delicate equipment up there,” he explained, and I heard the ‘duh’
implied in his tone.

“Outstanding. Ok, second-”

“If you 
are
thinking
 I can use a microwormhole to hack into the spacedock’s AI, I
already told you that is not happening. You should try listening 
some time
, instead of-”

“I heard you the first time. The second question
is simple: how does the spacedock get updates from the surface?”

“Um, facilities on the surface send signals, 
duh
. Did you think they use pigeons to
carry notes back and forth?”

I ignored him, both because I was on a roll, and
because he hated being ignored. “Signals are received by antennas, right? So-”

 

 

Heighdy-ho there, filthy monkeys! 
Tis
 I, Skippy the Magnificent. I have lowered
my standards to speak with you, so pay attention and-

Yes, you in the front there with your hand up. I’m
sure you did just get out of the shower. You are still filthy. Ugh, have you
ever 
smelled
 yourself? Whew.

Anyway, Joe would tell the story all wrong, making
it sound like his big stupid self is the hero of the story. Tell me, who is the
real hero? The monkey who has a random neuron fire in his brain and 
says
 ‘Duh can we do this’? Or the incomparably awesome being
who has 
to actually make his moronically obvious
ideas work
?

Good answer. That’s right, 
I
 am the hero. So, I am telling this story. First-

Ugh
.
Yes, if it was so obvious, why didn’t 
I

think of it? Because I have better things to do with my vast intelligence.
That’s why I outsource the pesky details to monkeys. Are you happy now? Get
yourself a juice box. Hopefully there is a cyanide flavor for you.

Just kidding
!

Not.

Anywho, we flew the 
Dutchman
 to the edge of the Kulashant star system, and launched a
missile that contained probes for- Oh, who cares about all the boring stuff? What
my incredibly awesome self did was pack one end of a microwormhole in the
stealth probes. Actually I used ten 
microwormholes

in five probes, but monkeys don’t need those details. In each probe, one
microwormhole was used to project a stealth field that is more sophisticated
than the Maxolhx can even dream of. That is how I got all five probes through
the overlapping sensor field and near the spacedock, that was a huh-
yuge

headache for me.

The missile got near the planet before it cut the
probes loose. Two of the probes approached the spacedock’s main antenna for
classified transmissions. I waited for a ship to pass between the spacedock and
the transmitter on the ground, and moved the probes into position. The probes
released the 
microwormholes
 and backed
away, still wrapped in stealth.

The microwormhole that was eighteen meters away
from the antenna, received signals from the surface. Those signals went into
one end of the microwormhole near the antenna, and came out the other end of
that microwormhole in a cargo bay aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
.

The second wormhole had one end in the same cargo
bay, with the other end less than a meter from the spacedock antenna. My shiny
canister, which is 
not
 a beer can,
was positioned between the wormhole event horizons in the cargo bay. I examined
incoming message traffic, decided what I wanted the spacedock to read, and fed
that to the antenna.

Here’s the tricky part. The signals traveled at
the speed of light, and the 
microwormholes

in front of the antenna were only seventeen meters apart. Light moves across a
gap of seventeen meters in- oh, why am I bothering to explain math to you
monkeys? It’s 
fast
, that’s all you
need to know. Aboard the 
Dutchman
, I
had to receive the signals, screw with the data however I wanted, and send the
signal along so it would be received by the antenna at the 
exact same time
 it would have been received, if I had not
intercepted it.

How did I accomplish something so mind-
bogglingly
 incredible? Simple; I used pure,
Grade-A awesomeness. Was it difficult? Well, I don’t like to brag, but-

Hey, you in the back there. I heard you laughing,
you sound like a hyena with asthma. No 
juicebox

for you.

What was I saying? Oh yeah. 
Awesomeness
. It was super difficult 
even
 for me, because I had to-

Ok, I admit it.

I lied.

It 
was

easy for me. Awesomeness is just what I do, it’s who I am. Which, really, shows
how amazing I am. Actually, I was bored during the whole thing, because Big
Stupidhead Joe insisted that I turn over operation of the ship to Nagatha while
I controlled the 
microwormholes
, and most
of my ginormous brain had nothing to do.

Well, not 
nothing
.
Joe did not need to know this, but most of my brainpower was busy working on my
fantastic 
Broadway
 musical! And, because
you have been such a wonderful audience, I will give you an 
exclusive
 
sneak peek
 at the-

 

 

“Skippy!” I shouted again, in a panic. “
SKIPPY
!”

“Huh? What?” He sputtered.

“You blue-screened on us.” I flashed a thumbs up
to Desai in the CIC, because she had been about to panic like me. “Did it work?
Is everything all right?”

“Did what work? Oh, the wormhole antenna intercept
thing. Yeah, of course. Duh. It’s 
me
,
you moron. See what happens when you forget to trust the awesomeness?”

“Hey, sorry. I was worried because I tried to talk

with
 you, and you didn’t answer. It must
have been super difficult, for you to be concentrating like that.”

“Nah, it was easy-peasy.”

“Then why weren’t you answering me?”

“Um-”

“Shit. Were you doing something else that took
your attention, when you were supposed to focus on the critical operation?”

“Well, heh heh, um, I’m going to plead the Fifth
on that.”

“Plead the- the Fifth Amendment does not apply to
beer cans!”

“It applies to 
people
,
Joe. Are you saying I am not a person?”

“I’m 
saying

you are an asshole.”

“We can agree to disagree about that one,” he
sniffed. “Anywho, the library file has been uploaded to the spacedock, and, um,
let me check. Yup, the spacedock is pushing the update to the ships of the battlegroup.
Score another one for the awesomeness of 
me
!”

“Uh huh. When can you disengage the wormholes, and
withdraw the probes? You said if they stay in place too long, the kitties may
notice something is odd.”

“Well, heh heh, that might be a 
teeny
 bit of a problem. I can’t
disengage until a ship passes between the antenna and the planet. Otherwise,
the kitties will notice the momentary glitch in signal traffic. Unfortunately,
traffic is pretty sparse right now. The next ship scheduled to arrive or
depart, is not for another seven hours.”

“That’s no good!” In the CIC, I saw Desai shaking
her head slowly. “You didn’t check that before you blocked the antenna?”

“No, because I didn’t have access to that data,
until 
after
 I hacked the antenna,
duh. Remember, this whole scheme was 
your

idea. Before you ask whether I can hack into the dispatch schedule, and order a
ship to depart early, the answer is yes, I can. I should 
not
 do that, because it will raise all kinds of red flags.”

“No, don’t do that. Shit. I guess we just wait?”

“Sure, we could do that. Except if I don’t
disengage the 
microwormholes
 in the next 
ninety four
 minutes, the gamma radiation of
their event horizons will begin leaking into local spacetime, and be detected
by the 
spacedock
, and any ship in the
area. Those sensors are run by 
subminds
,
I can’t hack into them remotely.”

“Ok, let me think.”

“It would have been nice for you to think 
before
 we started this, Joe,” he scolded
me.

What could Skippy do to prevent the 
microwormholes
 from being detected, and that
wouldn’t cause the kitties to become suspicious there was something funky about
their antenna? If he cut power to the antenna, even for a second, the spacedock
AI would notice and send bots to investigate the-

“Hey, Skippy. The bots that perform maintenance on
the spacedock, are they run by 
subminds
?”

“It depends, Joe. Most of the bots are semi-autonomous.
They take assignments from 
subminds
, but
perform the detail work on their own. Why do you ask?”

“Can you take control of a bot, or just give it a
task, and move one of 
them
 in front
of the antenna? Without making the spacedock AI suspicious that someone is
screwing with the bots?”

“Hmm. Well, shit. That was rather obvious. Why
didn’t you suggest that before?”

I gritted my teeth and reminded myself that we
needed Skippy more than he needed us. “You can do it without attracting the
attention of the AI?”

“Sure. 
Doing

it now. I just caused a minor glitch in a power relay on the hull of the
spacedock. A 
submind
 has dispatched the
nearest bot to investigate, and its path will take it in front of the antenna.
Three, two, one, and- Presto! Microwormholes have been shut down. I am backing
the probes away now. Another triumph by Skippy the Magnificent. Gosh, I should
compose an opera about 
me
,” he
gasped.

“Hey, I’ll offer you a deal. You trap that battlegroup
outside the galaxy, and you can perform your opera in the galley,” I said with
fingers crossed behind my back. I had not promised that anyone would 
attend
 the opera, and I hope that little
shithead didn’t notice.

“Deal, Joe! Oh, you are in for a 
treat
.”

“I’m sure I am, Skippy.” I knew I was in for a
treat, because while he performed his opera, I planned to be in my cabin eating
a Fluffernutter. He would be pissed at me, and I would deal with that when it
happened. “XO,” I breathed a sigh of relief, and Desai walked around the
partition onto the bridge. “We will wait until Skippy has all those probes out
of their strategic defense sensor bubble, then jump away.” That would take
several hours, because the probes could not maneuver fast while they contained
one end of a microwormhole. That event horizon was being used by Skippy to
project a stealth field through, keeping the five probes hidden. Once they were
beyond the sensor coverage around the planet, he could shut off the 
microwormholes
, and the probes would rely on
their own stealth fields. The probes would run out of power within six days,
plenty of time for them to go dark and drift forever. “We did it, 
again
,” I would have grinned with
satisfaction, but I didn’t have the energy.

“We did,” Desai agreed. “Now it’s on to the next
impossible task.”

I slapped a hand across my face and mumbled into
it. “You, Simms, Adams, and Chang. Why do all of my executive officers delight
in reminding me how tough this job is?”

“Because that is 
our
 tough job, Sir,” Desai wasn’t smiling either.

 

Four hours later, the probes were drifting away
from Kulashant, on a course that would take them above the plane of the
planet’s orbit. They were drifting away from the local wormhole, in a direction
no Maxolhx ship was likely to fly. With Skippy certain the libraries of the Battlegroup’s
ships had been properly 
infected,
 we jumped the 
Dutchman
 away.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER 
THIRTY
SEVEN

 

“Hey, 
heeeeey
,
Joe,” Skippy’s voice had that raspy, slurred quality when he drunk-dialed me
that night. The effort of controlling the 
microwormholes

near the antenna had been rough on him, and he had warned me his matrix needed
reconfiguring, or whatever the hell he did. The result of him rearranging his
brain was his higher-level functioning was impaired for a while. The result of 
that
 was him waking me up in the middle
of the freakin’ night. “Hey, 
duuuuude
. You
awake?”

“No.”

“Oh, sorry, man. Didn’t mean to disturb your
sleep. Um, you sure you’re not awake?”

“Pretty sure, yeah,” I threw the pillow over my
head.

It was useless, he only spoke louder. “I ask
because it 
sounds
 like you are
awake.”

“Crap!” Throwing the pillow down by my feet, I
gave 
into
 the inevitable. “If I listen to
you for, like, five minutes, will you leave me alone?”

“Huh? Oh, sure, sure.”

He was silent for a while. Too long, suspiciously
long. I could feel my ability to fall back asleep fading away as the tension
bothered me. Finally, I couldn’t stand it any longer. “What is it?”

“What is what?” He asked, sounding distracted.

“The thing you wanted to talk about?”

“I thought you were asleep?”

I face-palmed myself with both hands.

“Hey!” He shouted. “You liar, you weren’t asleep
at all.”

From behind my hands, I muttered “Can you just
tell me what is so important?”

“Oh, yeah, I remember now. I was working on a sort
of Physics for Monkeys handbook, to catch your scientists up on all the stuff
they are wrong about. You know I still can’t tell you monkeys anything really
important, and your brains would explode anyway. 
But,

I am giving it a shot anyway.”

“That’s great, Skippy, thank you. Uh, how about we
wait until morning for me to review this book, Ok?”

“Review? Why would you- O.M.G. dude. Did you think
I want 
you
 to read my physics book?
That is-” his voice dissolved into laughter. “Oh, that’s a good one.”

“Asshole. You woke me up to laugh at me?”

“Oh, sorry,” he took a moment to finish chuckling,
and his words became slurred again. “To dumb down my book so monkeys can
understand it, I read some of the classics of children’s literature. It was 
aaaaawesome
,
dude.”

“That’s great, Skip-”

“I have a question. You know the Doctor Seuss
story ‘Green Eggs and Ham’?”

“I vaguely remember it, yeah. What about it?” I
wondered whether green eggs were somehow a good metaphor for higher-dimensional
physics.

“Well, I think there’s something I don’t get about
that book.”

“Like what?”

“That Sam-I-Am guy? He’s kind of a 
dick
, Joe.”

“Uh-”

“The hero of the story does 
not
 want to try green eggs and ham.”

“Well,” Saying ‘well’ was a way to stall while my
foggy memory searched back to when my father had read that story to me. “But in
the end, the guy does try green eggs, and he likes them, right?”

“He 
says

he likes green eggs and ham, but maybe he did that just so Sam will leave him
alone. Sam badgered him into doing it, Joe. That’s harassment.”

I flopped the pillow back over my face and
groaned, my voice muffled.
  
“I think
you’re reading too much into the story.”

“Really, Joe, 
really
?”

Man, that was a conversation I very much did not
want to have at, I checked my zPhone, oh two 
forty
five
 in the morning. “Skippy, if I stipulate that the guy in that story
had a good case for a restraining order against Sam, can you drop the subject?”

“Certainly.”

“Great. Ok, good night, I will-”

“I’m glad we agree on that issue. Children should
not be taught to badger people until they get what they want.”

“Yeah, I, uh-”

“And do 
not

get me started on the questionable physics of ‘Horton Hears A Who’.” He
snorted. “If the Whos are as small as the book claims, they must be nanoscale,
and the wavelength of their voices would be 
waaay
 to short for Horton to-”

My night kind of went downhill from there.

After my alarm sounded, in the middle of a deep
philosophical discussion about Yertle the freakin’ Turtle, I staggered into the
shower and let 
hot
 water cascade over my
head until Skippy gave up trying to talk to me. In the galley, Adams was there,
a towel over her shoulders. She had gotten up before me and already been to the
gym.

“Good morning, Sir,” she held up a cup of coffee
for me.

I took the coffee and could not reply right away,
because I was yawning so 
hard
 I couldn’t speak.
“Morning, Gunny,” I finally managed to say while slurping the hot coffee.

“You look like shit, Sir. Did you get any sleep?”

“Not much.” My brain was in such a dense fog, I
didn’t think about 
what
 I was saying. “Do
you want to have children?”

“What?” Her eyebrows flew 
upward

and she glanced around the galley. Other than us, there were two people back in
the kitchen, so no one could hear us. That could change any second, as people
came in to get coffee. 
Lowering her voice
,
her eyes cast down in a coy gesture I should have recognized, if my brain was
not so sleep-deprived. “You really want to have that discussion 
here
? Now?”

“What? 
Oh
!”
Amazingly, my brain went from zero to 
Maximum
Alert
 in a split-second. “No, Gunny, I, shit.” I waved my hands
frantically, sloshing coffee onto the deck. “Sorry. Look, Skippy drunk-dialed
me and kept me up all night, explaining why Doctor Seuss books are terrible for
children, and that everything my parents taught me is wrong.”

“Oh,” her expression was a mixture of relief and
disappointment. Or maybe I just sucked at reading people. “You didn’t, um,
mean-”

“I was just making a joke, Adams. If we ever- 
You
! If 
you
 ever have children, do not ask Skippy for parenting advice.”

“Sir,” she grinned at me over her coffee, the mug
hiding her smile but not the twinkle in her eyes. “I didn’t need you to tell me

that
.”

“I suppose not. It was a long night, Gunny.”
Setting my coffee on a counter, I knelt down with a towel to mop up the coffee
I had spilled on the deck. Something in her bemused expression was odd, until I
realized I was down on one knee in front of her. “Uhhh-” I couldn’t think of
anything to say. “This is not what it looks like,” I explained to a group of
people who, just then, walked into the galley.

“It had better not be,” Adams said with a wink.
“If 
this
 is the way you propose, I
feel sorry for the girl.”

Quickly, I dried the deck, stuffed the towel in a
bin to be washed, and hurried out the door.

“Colonel?” Adams called after me. “You forgot the
rest of your coffee.”

“Believe me, Gunny,” I paused in the doorway. “I
am 
wide awake
 now.”

 

 

To make the 
Valkyrie

into the bad-ass warship we needed, we had to acquire a set of power boosters.
By ‘acquire’ I mean ‘steal’ and by ‘steal’ I mean ‘kill the people who have
boosters and take them’. There is no nice way to say that. No, wait. Maybe
there 
is
 a nice way to say that, but
saying it 
nicely
 would be bullshit. The
harsh fact was, we needed power boosters to save our home planet, maybe our
entire species. I was willing to do a whole lot of morally sketchy things to
make that happen.

Skippy had identified a 
relatively
 soft target, where we could get power boosters to fix up

Valkyrie
 and the old 
Dutchman
. Though we would be hitting a
Maxolhx facility, we had a good plan, and I was feeling confident, which was a
bad sign. Until recently, the idea of getting anywhere close to anything
controlled by the Maxolhx would have had me quaking in my boots. Now, I thought
we had a pretty good chance of the operation succeeding. That made me worry the
Universe would see this operation as a perfect time to smack Joe Bishop down
for all the crazy shit I had done. So, while I wasn’t worried about the plan, I
was worried about worrying which 
maybe

meant the Universe would leave me alone for a while.

I know, the twisted logic that goes on in my head
scares me sometimes.

“Joe,” Skippy popped up on my desk 
without
 warning, startling me. It would be nice
if a bell chimed right before his hologram shimmered to life. “Got a question
for you.”

“Maybe I have an answer. What’s up?”

“You complain about us taking too many risks, but
now you’re planning to hit the Maxolhx, to get the VPMs we need. My question is,

why
 are we doing this? The way we
plan to trap the enemy battlegroup outside the galaxy has 
me
 doing all the work to set up the wormhole chain. We do not
actually need the 
Valkyrie
 to do
that. I know we went through a lot of trouble to build a warship, but are you
now too invested in having another ship?”

“I don’t think that-”

“Because if we lose the 
Dutchman
 in the op to get power boosters, then we may not be able
to get me to where I can set up the wormhole chain.”

“Lose the 
Dutchman
?”
That made me pause. Skippy was really worried about something. “This is
supposed to be a soft target.”

“
Relatively

soft, Joe. It is still a Maxolhx base, defended by Maxolhx technology. Unlike
the op to hack the library files of the target 
battlegroup
,
stealing power boosters will require squishy biological trashbags to risk their
meatsack bodies. It is risky, Joe.”

“I know it’s risky. Everything we do out here is a
risk.”

“Then why are we doing this? Are you so eager to
play with your new 
toy that-”
 

“It isn’t a toy, and this isn’t a game. We do need

Valkyrie
. Not to create the wormhole
chain, but for the backup plan.”

“Um, what backup plan?”

“Ok, I should have discussed this with you. Sorry.
Listen, how sure are you that you can create a chain of wormholes, all the way
outside the galaxy?”

“Hoo boy, that is a good question, Joe. I simply
do not know. It 
should
 work. I am
confident in my ability to control the wormholes. 
But,

I will be placing event horizons in dangerously close proximity, so the network
might refuse my commands. It is pretty certain the network will revise its
protocols so we can’t try this stunt a second time. Thus, I can’t test it.”

“That’s why we need a backup plan, and for that,
we need 
Valkyrie
.”

“I do not like the sound of that, Joe. What
reckless thing 
are you intending
 as a
backup plan, that requires an advanced warship? I warned you, even with a full
set of power boosters, 
Valkyrie
 can’t
take on a reinforced battlegroup.”

“We don’t need to destroy the entire battlegroup,
Skippy. We just need to buy time. Even if the wormhole chain thing does work,
we are only buying time for Earth. Eventually, the Maxolhx will notice their battlegroup
failed to return from Earth, and they will get serious about sending a war
fleet to destroy my homeworld.”

“That is true, unfortunately. 
Like
 you said, the days of us sneaking around
conducting secret operations is over. Ok, what is the backup plan?”

“If the wormhole chain thing doesn’t work for
whatever reason, we take 
Valkyrie
 through
the Goalpost wormhole, and wait there. The battlegroup will send a scout ship
through, we leave it alone while we hide in our stealth field- Uh, we can do
that, right? Hide close to the wormhole?”

“That’s kind of iffy, Joe. I have upgraded the
original Maxolhx stealth capability, which was already very advanced. However,
it depends on how close we are to the scout ship, and whether it uses active
sensors. The kitties have sophisticated sensors that map the fabric of
spacetime, so an active scan might detect our presence, by the way the 
Valkyrie
’s mass creates a gravity well.”

“Shit.” I could see my backup plan falling apart,
because of my ignorance. 
Because of my
incompetence.
 “I did not know that. Well, there goes that idea.”

“Not necessarily, Joe. If we park the 
Valkyrie
 a good distance away, say a 
couple
 
lightminutes
,
then we should be safe. The active scan degrades with distance. Unless the
scout ship is determined to conduct a detailed scan of the entire area, it
should not detect us. I think we’d be safe. The Maxolhx are arrogant, plus they
believe that beyond the Goalpost wormhole is 
nothing
. They will assume there is not any potential threat in the
area.”

“Ok, that’s good, that’s good. In that case, we
need to be far enough away to hide from a scan, and close enough that we can
jump in to hit the 
first star
 carrier,
before its systems fully recover.”

“Um, that will be very tricky timing. Don’t count
on doing that, Joe. We would need to guess when the star carrier is coming
through, and time our inbound jump precisely. If we jump in too early, the
scout ship would warn the star carrier, and it would abort its approach.”

“Ok, well, then we jump in as soon as we see that 
first star
 carrier 
come
 through. I know, there will be a lag as the sensor data crawls
out to us at the speed of light. What matters is, we jump in, hammer the star
carrier with everything we’ve got, then jump away before they can hit us.
Hopefully we cause a lot of damage, we’re going more for shock value than
physical results. The intent is to get the kitties to retreat through Goalpost,
and think long and hard about what to do next. We want them to wonder what the 
hell
 is going on. Their ships got
attacked, by a ship that appears to be based on their own technology. The
survivors will have to go back to base to report what happened. With just a
little bit of luck, the Maxolhx will wonder if the ship that attacked them was
controlled by a breakaway faction of Bopshuraq. They will not send another
mission to Earth, until they have some answers.”

“Sure, Joe. But when they do send another mission
to Earth, it will be a massive force.”

“A whole fleet, or a reinforced battlegroup, makes
no difference, Skippy. Either way, Earth is toast. We’re just buying time.”

“To do what?”

“I haven’t got that figured out yet.”

“Whoo. Shit. These are truly desperate times, my
friend.”

“Hey, come on, Skippy. We are the Merry Band of
Pirates. We will have an upgraded 
Flying
Dutchman
, a bad-ass warship, and the incomparable magnificence of 
you
.”

“Wow. Thanks for the vote of confidence. But, if
you have a Taco Bell coupon, I wouldn’t wait too long to use it, if you know
what I mean.”

“Oh, hell. Yeah, I do.”

 

 

Sitting with Adams, we were planning menus for our
next duty day in the galley. “How about we make cheeseburgers?” I suggested.
“For lunch, not dinner.” I knew she wanted to make one of her grandmother’s
recipes for the evening meal.

“Cheeseburgers?”

“I know, I always want cheeseburgers. 
But,
 we haven’t had them since the cookout on Avalon, and I
am craving-”

“You are 
always

craving cheeseburgers, Sir,” she winked at me playfully, and that was the best
thing that happened to me since, well, maybe ever. “The problem is, have you
checked our supplies? We don’t have a whole lot of ground beef left. We don’t
have a lot of 
anything
 left. This
mission wasn’t supposed to last so long.”

“Uh,” I mentally smacked myself. When Simms was
aboard, I checked the logistics report every morning, because I knew she would
mention something that day and I didn’t want to look stupid. Since we departed
Avalon, Nagatha had a nice report available, and I had glanced at it
occasionally, but my limited attention span wasn’t able to focus on mundane
details. “Oh, right,” I blushed. It was no use pretending our supply situation
wasn’t news to me, Adams knew me too well. “Uh, that’s no problem. We can make
Oklahoma fried onion burgers.”

“What? You’re from 
Maine
. How do you know 
about Oklahoma-”

“It’s something my grandmother used to make. Her
mother made them way back in, like the Great Depression. You use a layer of onions
on the patties, to stretch out the beef, because onions were 
cheap

and beef wasn’t. You know,” I tapped my lips with a finger. “I had forgotten
all about those burgers. They are 
really

good, like, extra juicy.”

“If you say so, Sir.”

“Are you questioning your commanding officer’s
judgment, Gunnery Sergeant?” I asked with mock severity.

She laughed. “All the time, Sir, all the time.”

 

The next day, it was our turn in the galley, so I
was forming the onions and beef into patties, with onions forming the bottom
layer to stretch out our dwindling supply of ground beef. A few feet away from
me, Adams was busy making potato salad. Naturally, no matter how much space
there was in the 
galley’s
 kitchen, we got
in each other’s way. Both of us reached for the pepper at the same time, and my
hand closed over hers. Because it startled me, and because I am an idiot, my
hand lingered on hers for a beat too long, long enough for her to pull away
first. “S-sorry,” I choked out.

“It’s Ok,” she looked away, then glanced back with
her eyes slightly downcast, giving me a coy smile.

Apparently, something happened during the next
couple minutes, although I have no memory of it. The next thing I do remember
is reaching into the bowl of onions and coming up empty. Somehow, I had made
burger patties totally on autopilot. There were pepper flakes in the bowl, so
at some point, I must have used the pepper shaker
. Although,
 it was in front of Adams when I looked at her. Did I
give it to her, or just set it down on the table and she picked it up? Either
way, we must have worked silently for at least several minutes.

“I’m uh, done,” I announced.

“Good. That’s, good,” she replied without looking
at me. There was a catch in her voice. Damn it, sometimes I wish guys weren’t
so bad at reading emotions. Or maybe it was just me, more than one girlfriend
had told me I was particularly clueless. Was she not looking at me because she
was upset? Was she feeling the same way I was? Or was the situation just so
awkward she wanted to be somewhere, anywhere else?

One thing was certain, it was an awkward moment.
“I will, uh, put the patties in the fridge. Oh, the dough has risen for the
buns,” I looked at the trays sitting on a warming plate. “Time to turn the oven
on for baking.”

“You’re the baker,” her eyes flashed to mine and I
was suddenly sure of another thing; whatever she was feeling, she was not angry
at me.

“Just one of my 
many
 talents,” I joked, hearing how lame it sounded.

“Like your singing?” She looked right at me with a
twinkle in her eyes.

“
Not

like my singing,” I said with a mock stern expression, and we both laughed.

 

We got the first batch of burger buns into the
oven and set a timer, then started working on the dinner she was making. My
first job was to boil water for rice pilaf. Looking at the boxes stacked on the
counter, I remembered something I had seen in one of the cargo bays. “Hey,
Skippy,” I called out. “We have a 
lot

of this stuff, right? Why is that?”

“A mistake, Joe,” he explained. “We didn’t unload
all the Rice-a-Roni that Simms asked for, to be sent down to Avalon. By the
time she noticed, we were buttoning the ship up to leave orbit. So, we are
stuck with five crates of, The San Francisco Treat,” he sang like a very old TV
commercial, if you are old enough to remember ads on television.

“Rice-a-Roni, huh?” I examined the box. My family
had eaten it occasionally, of course, but I never paid much attention to the
stuff. “Sounds Italian.”

“It is rice and 
pasta
, Joe,” he sniffed, in a tone that implied an unspoken ‘duh’.

“I wonder if there’s a Polish version with rice
and cabbage, called Rice-a-
Rooski
?”

“Ugh, Joe, you are such an-”

Adams interrupted him, by playfully slapping my
shoulder with a towel. “You are 
funny
,”
she giggled. Yes, Gunnery Sergeant Adams 
giggled
.
“Rice-a-
rooski
,” she said with a laugh.

We worked quietly side by side, because I didn’t
want to spoil the mood, plus I didn’t know what to say. After a 
couple
 minutes of us slicing vegetables, she
softly said “This is nice.”

I swallowed before speaking, so my throat wouldn’t
be dry. “Yeah, this will be tasty.”

“No,” she lifted her knife away from the cutting
board. “I mean,” she waved the knife to encompass the galley. “I mean, 
this
. Us working together like this.”

“It is nice.” Like a coward, I said the safest
thing I could think of.

She bobbed her head in agreement, the curls of her
hair falling around her forehead. Like most of the crew, she had allowed her hair
to grow longer than regulation since we left Earth, and her bangs fell in curls
to frame her face. She had beautiful hair, and I often felt like commenting
about it. But I knew that to a black woman, her hair is a whole
 thing
, like a sensitive subject, and it
was none of my business. So I nodded like an idiot and grinned back at her,
again playing it safe.

“Feels kind of like we’re playing House,” she
added wistfully.

“House? Like, 
our

house? Us?” Unfortunately, my brain did not have a reply ready, so I blurted
out the thing at the top of my ‘Stupid Things 
To
 Say’
stack. My brain has joined the Universe in hating me.

She froze, her knife in the air above a tomato. “I
meant, this is like something normal people do, you 
know?

People in their nice happy homes, not stuck aboard a starship a thousand
lightyears from their families.”

“Uh, yeah, that’s what I thought,” I said as my
brain spat out something from the ‘
Lame

Things 
To
 Say’ stack.

She bailed me out of my self-induced awkwardness,
whether she intended to or not. She reached across me to pick up a jar of
seasonings. She brushed against my shoulder, and I got a whiff of whatever she
used for shampoo. It smelled like tropical flowers and coconuts and sunshine.
Inhaling her scent was like an instant beach vacation. “Sorry,” she muttered as
she held up the jar and shook it as she pulled away.

And I realized something, something important.

On the other side of her, right next to the
cutting board, was a jar of the same seasoning. 

She hadn’t needed to reach across me.

She was trying to tell me something.

“Uh,” I turned toward her. My throat was 
dry
 so I took a quick gulp of water. My scalp was 
tight
 and my hair felt like it was standing on end and a
little voice in the back of my mind was shouting 
stupid stupid STUPID
 at me. It is always good advice to listen to
the wise little voice in your head, the one that urges you not to ask someone
to hold your beer while you do some idiotic thing. You know what? I was damned
sick of listening to that voice. I was sick of a lot of things, like being
responsible for the survival of my entire species, while the governments back
home second-guessed my every decision. Most especially I was sick and tired of
having to be a lonely freakin’ monk just because I was the commander. I am 
human
 too, and it is hard to work up
enthusiasm for saving everyone’s lives when mine is so achingly lonely.

So, fuck that little voice, I decided. Sometimes,
the purpose of life is to enjoy 
living
.
Damn it, even if we succeeded in stopping the Maxolhx from reaching Earth, we
still couldn’t go home until the Maxolhx lifted their blockade of Gateway. Why
the hell should I care about some Army regulation that was written a long time
ago, on a planet far, far away? I committed mutiny and stole a freakin’
starship, so it’s not like me breaking regulations was anything new. A
hypothetical punishment, from a government on a world that soon might not
exist, was not an effective deterrent.

She set down the knife and looked at me. 
Looked

at me. Just looked into my eyes, and waited for me to say whatever I was going
to say. What was I going to say? I know what I 
wanted
 to say. “Marga-”

“
Heeeey
,
Joe,” Skippy interrupted us, startling me. “How about-”

“Skippy,” I didn’t look up at the speaker. “Unless
the ship is 
on fire
, and I can do
something about it. Go. Away.”

“But-”

“Go away. Now. 
Right

now,” I barked at him.

“Shutting up,” he pouted, as the sound of his
words were drowned out by the laughter of a group coming into the galley.

Note to self: install a locking door on the damned
galley.

Margaret turned away, clearing her throat. She
looked up at the people coming into the galley who had obvious just come from
an exercise. We would see the telltale red mark of a powered-armor suit helmet
liner on their foreheads.

The next hour was agonizingly awkward. While we
finished baking the burger buns for lunch and got preparations completed for
dinner, there was a steady stream of people in the galley, laughing and joking
and debriefing about the training exercise. I envied their happiness and easy
fellowship, and hated them for being there. Adams left first, she had to lead a
Spin class in the gym. I put things away, cleaned up and checked the time.
Lunch began in three hours. Normally, I would have gone to the gym, but that
was the last place I wanted to be right then.

Instead, I stomped into my office, slammed myself
down into the chair and jabbed the button to slide the door closed. “Skippy!” I
bellowed. “What was that?”

“What was what?” His fake innocence did not fool
me.

“You know 
exactly

what you did. You blocked me!”

“
Blocked

you?”

“Don’t play dumb with me. You broke the Bro Code.”

“Well, I-”

“That 
hurt
,
Skippy.” My eyes were 
watering
 and I wiped them with
the back of my sleeves, not caring if he saw.

“Dude,” he sounded just as hurt. “I did it for
you. You 
asked
 me to do that.”

“I did? When? What the hell?”

“It was the night you got hammered in Bangor,
before the Delta team tried to seize the 
Dutchman
.
When you got to the hotel after midnight, you were babbling, and you made me
promise that if I ever saw you doing something stupid that might hurt Margaret,
I was to stop you. That’s what I did.”

“Holy-” I had no memory of that, but I didn’t
think he was lying.

“I didn’t 
want

to do it. Really, the last thing I want is to get involved in squishy stuff
like relationships between you monkeys. Um, I mean, humans. Sorry about that. I
didn’t do the right thing?”

“Shit. We’ll never know now. Ah, damn it, it’s not
your fault.”

“Joe, despite all that empathy crap you made me
learn about, I know almost nothing about how to handle relationships. However,
your primary concern was to avoid doing anything that might hurt Margaret.”

“You are right, my man,” I offered him a fist
bump, and he returned it. “If it’s meant to happen, it’ll happen, I guess. 
Crap.
 It’s not 
supposed
 to happen, and she knows it. My life 
sucks
.”

“Hey. My best friend,” he made a show of wiping
his fist on his admiral’s uniform, “is a filthy monkey. My life sucks too.”

 

Margaret Adams was not focused 
on
 the Spin class, losing track of where she
was in the program. A slow song started when she had the group still standing
on the pedals, grinding hard up a hill. At one point, she got off her bike to
fumble with the music player, and shuffled through songs while the group
waited.

After the class, Captain Frey lingered behind to
help Adams wipe down the bikes and adjust anything that had come loose.
“Something bothering you, eh?”

“I’m 
fine
,”
Adams replied, with a distinct I-don’t-want-to-talk-about-it vibe. That was
unfair of her and she knew it. She had been paired with Frey in many training exercises,
and they always had each other’s backs.

Frey lowered her voice. “Trouble with a guy?” She
asked knowingly.

“Don’t want to talk about it. Ma’am,” Adams flung
a towel over one shoulder and strode straight through the gym and out the door.

“Uh huh,” Frey muttered to herself. “Guy trouble
for sure.”

 

The Oklahoma fried onion burgers were a big hit
with the crew, except for the few uncultured cretins who hate onions. The only
problem with that meal was Skippy interrupting to sing ‘Oooooooklahoma, where
the wind-’

I won’t finish the 
song,

it was painful enough to hear it the first time. It was my fault for not forbidding
Skippy to sing, I should have known. A couple missions ago, someone made New
York-style cheesecake, and the beer can serenaded us with Sinatra’s ‘New York
New York
’,
  
then

‘New York Groove’ by one of the guys in the band Kiss, then U2’s song ‘New
York’, then-

You get the idea. There are a LOT of songs about
New York.

We never made cheesecake again.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER 
THIRTY
EIGHT

 

We got the almost-upgraded 
Flying Dutchman
, and the not-quite-yet-bad-ass 
Valkyrie
, flying in formation at the edge of a red dwarf star
system. If you are wondering why we are always visiting red dwarf systems,
that’s because those stars are the most common in the galaxy. They are also mostly
unable to support complex lifeforms, at least the type of life that is able to
travel between stars. That made them useful for our purposes, because we wanted
to avoid star systems with large populations and therefore substantial networks
of strategic defenses.

Skippy had recommended this star because he thought
we could find power boosters there, and because it was a relatively soft
target. It was in a gap between the Sagittarius and Perseus Arms, about a
quarter of the way around the galaxy from Earth. When we came through the
closest wormhole, we were as far from home as we had ever been, except for our
two trips out to the beta site.

This star, which even the Maxolhx had not bothered
to give a name, had one feature that attracted us: a gas giant planet with a
refueling base. That fuel station also supported arriving ships with stores of
supplies, and an automated fabrication shop that could manufacture equipment
larger and more complex than the shop aboard most ships could handle.

The orbiting base had defenses to protect itself,
and I was worried about that, despite Skippy’s assurances that the 
Valkyrie
 could handle anything the base
threw at us until we were able to knock out their weapons. A supply base that
saw a lot of traffic would not be a soft target, but this place was, because of
its history. It had been built over a sixty thousand years ago, to support
Maxolhx ships patrolling two strategically-vital wormhole clusters. If the
Rindhalu launched a surprise attack, those wormhole clusters would be an
important route that led deeper into the heart of the Maxolhx Hegemony, their
inner circle of homeworlds.

The base we chose as a target used to be
important, until several wormhole shifts had left it in the middle of nowhere.
One of the nearby wormhole clusters had gone dormant, the other now connected
in the opposite direction from the Hegemony, to nothing important. Rather than
being on the frontline, the base had been downgraded so it was kind of a Coast
Guard search and rescue station. According to the skimpy data Skippy had
gathered, the base serviced only two or three ships per year, and one of those
ships was a cargo carrier that supplied similar stations. There had been 
talk
 of shutting the place down, or at least
mothballing it until a future wormhole shift made it important again, but
bureaucratic 
inertia
 kept it limping
along. All we cared about was that supply bases kept stores of important
components like VPM power boosters. Any boosters the station had were very
likely old, perhaps even obsolete, but Skippy did not care. As long as the
power boosters were not actually broken, he could make them work, better than
new. All he needed us to do was to capture enough to enhance the capabilities
of both ships in our little fleet.

We had a 
lot

working in our favor. The station was fully automated, so we didn’t need to
worry about armed opposition of the biological kind. It was unlikely any ships
would be there, and we could perform a recon at long range to confirm that. And
we had an outstanding tactical plan, developed by Smythe and his team. I would
be aboard 
Valkyrie
, with the 
Dutchman
 being commanded by Reed. She
wanted to fly a dropship, but so did Desai. Because Desai might soon be stuck
shuttling people from either Paradise or Earth to the beta site, I felt I owed
her an opportunity 
to actually fly something
again
. Besides, it would be good for Reed to gain experience as a
starship captain. I told her that cute guys would be very impressed with our
very own Captain Janeway.

She was not amused.

 

The operation began in textbook fashion. Together,
we jumped into the system, about a 
lighthour

away from the orbiting supply base. Skippy confirmed everything was 
exactly
 as he expected. Well, not exactly, but
close enough. There were no starships docked at the station, it was orbiting
within the zone he predicted, and the fuel tanks appeared to be full. That
meant no ship had been there to refuel recently, because the fuel-extraction
drogue that dipped down into atmosphere was not operating. The tanks must have
been topped off at least nine days ago, by Skippy’s estimate, probably more.

We updated our navigation system with the
station’s coordinates, Smythe assured me his team was ready to go, and I gave
the ‘Go’ order. Holy shit, I thought to myself, this is it. We are actually
attacking, like conducting a boarding operation, against an apex-species
facility. Sure, we had boarded the ship that was now our Valkyrie, but Skippy
had neatly sliced that ship apart before our boarding team set their boots on
the hull. We could not use any fancy wormhole physics against this target. It
would be, as Smythe described it, a simple smash-and-grab operation, with equal
parts smashing and grabbing. I was Ok with whatever smashing he did, as long as
the grabbing part was successful.

The 
Dutchman

jumped in first, leading by just over one second. She emerged one point five 
lightseconds
 from the station, immediately
began to saturate the area with a damping field, and fired her maser cannon at
pre-selected targets on the station’s hull. Before the first 
maser
 beam struck the station, 
Valkyie

jumped in less than five kilometers from the station, on the other side. We cut
loose with masers and particle beams, knocking out defense shield generators as
our 
first
 priority.

The fight pitted a weakened battlecruiser and a star
carrier, against an elderly and automated supply station. Still, it was a
furious battle while it lasted, which was about eleven seconds. Usually,
everything happens really 
slooooowly
 in
space warfare, because the distances are so great. Even a bolt of focused light
crawls along at a mere hundred and 
eighty six

thousand miles per second. But, when the combatants are at close range, things
happen 
fast
.

The 
Valkyrie

rotated around its long axis, spinning to keep the shields on one side from
being pounded so badly they failed. Though our new ship was a battlecruiser, it
could not supply sufficient power to the shields and weapons at the same time,
and we needed priority to weapons. The key to the battle was to knock out the
enemy’s shields in one particular area, so we could have a clean shot at the
juicy center under the crunchy shell.

While we were hammering away at the station, it
was shooting back. Within three seconds, space between 
Valkyrie
 and the station was no longer a vacuum. It was filled with
missiles exploded by our point-defense systems, debris from railgun rounds of
both sides that had been turned to particles when they impacted energy shields,
scattered particle beams, and finally by plating blown off the station’s hull
when our precision directed-energy weapons burned through the enemy shields.

Degrading shields in a particular area of the
station was the key to our entire assault plan. That took seven seconds, during
which my heart was racing because I felt our mighty 
Valkyrie
 shudder from multiple impacts. On the big display, our
shields were glowing either yellow or orange, colors chosen for what they meant
to the humans who now owned the ship. It was a race against time, because once
the stored energy in 
Valkyrie
’s shield generators was exhausted, we had
to stop firing weapons so the reactors could shift their power output to
recharge the shields.

We won the race, with a comfortable three seconds
left on the clock.

With enemy shields down, we shifted our energy
weapons to attack defensive cannons, while we launched missiles. 
Three missiles, then another pair.
 The station immediately
destroyed four of them.

The last one got through, its armored nosecone
punching through the skin of the station like it was tissue paper. Skippy
actually had to remind the missile’s tiny brain to explode the warhead before
it plunged completely through the station and out the other side. The missile
complied.

Eleven seconds after 
Valkyrie
 jumped in, the fight was over. Or, the ship-to-station
part of the fight was over. Our missile had taken out the station’s AI and cut
off the stores section from the main power supply. The station was defenseless,
and we hoped it would be, long enough for Smythe’s people to get aboard and
allow Skippy to take over local systems.

“Skippy?” I asked anxiously. The amount of damage
that 
Valkyrie
 had taken in the brief
battle shocked me. Our mighty warship needed those damned power boosters, or we
would be a sitting duck in a real battle.

“Give me a minute, I’m directing the defense
cannons to knock debris out of the way. If a dropship smacks into a chunk of-”

“Yeah, I hear you. Smythe, standby one.”

He didn’t reply, he didn’t need to.

“Ok, we’re good,” Skippy declared with relief. “We
have a clear 
flightpath
 to the target.”

“Away boarders,” I ordered, and four Panthers
rocketed away from 
Valkyrie
, curving
around to converge on two of the station’s docking bays. The big doors there
were closed and slicing them open with the ship’s cannons would create too much
hazardous debris, so the Panthers needed to set down next to the doors and
Smythe’s people would blow the personnel airlocks with explosive charges.

“Reed?” I called her, mostly because I was nervous
and had nothing else to do at the moment. “How 
you

doing
 over there, Fireball?”

“Nominal,” she replied tersely from the command
chair aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
.

That was my cue to shut up. 

 

Our textbook operation went to hell, as soon as
the first boarding team blew the inner airlock door and flung themselves down
the corridor beyond, pushing off the walls in the zero gravity. A grenade or
maybe a rocket exploded, ripping into the two operators in the lead and ripping
into the pair behind them. On 
Valkyrie
’s
bridge, all I could do was 
watch
,
sickened as two, then four 
lifesigns

monitors flatlined. We had lost four people just like that. “Skippy!” I shouted
frantically. “How did the station-”

“That wasn’t the station! It wasn’t an automated
defense system!” He was a frantic as I was. “I think- Yes! There are two
Maxolhx over there. No, three of them!”

“How did you not know they were there?” I
demanded. “Smythe, pull your people out-”

“Sir,” he protested in a voice a lot 
more calm
 that I would have been. “We might not get another
shot at this. Skippy, the 
oppo
 is limited
to three? You are certain of that?”

“Yes, three. 
Only

three.” Skippy insisted. “They must have engaged their suit 
stealthware
 before we killed the station AI. I
couldn’t detect them until they started moving.”

“
Stealthware
?”
I screeched unhelpfully. All I was doing was making the situation worse. “How
can you be sure?”

“Joe, you have to trust me on this. Now I know to
look for the signature where their 
stealthware

interacts with-”

“I trust you,” I cut him off. “Smythe, we are not
sending more people in Kristang hardshell armor, against three Maxolhx equipped
with-”

“Joe!” It was Skippy’s turn to interrupt. “The
enemy 
are
 not wearing combat suits. They
only have environment suits. They might be technicians, or they could be
soldiers, but they were not expecting a fight.”

“They are expecting one now. Smythe, pull back
now.”

“Sir-”

“Smythe,” Skippy spoke directly to the STAR team
commander. “Joe is right, for the wrong reason. Pull your teams back. I can
take care of the enemy, but your team is in the way.”

I didn’t like the sound of that. “What are you
planning, Skippy?”

“Those docking bay doors are not armored. We can
burn through them, straight into the inner compartments. Make a hole, send in a
missile equipped with antipersonnel submunitions. I have bots swapping out a
warhead right now, be ready to launch in twenty-seven seconds.”

“Pulling back now,” Smythe said without waiting
for me. Technically, he was complying with an order I had already given. We had
served together long enough that he knew he had wide latitude to conduct away
operations as he saw fit. I would only interfere with him if I thought he
didn’t appreciate the big picture.

It took twenty-two seconds for his people to pull
back to what Skippy designated as safe zones, then we fired a 
maser
 beam. It was only one of the
point-defense cannons, but it seared through the docking bay doors like they
were made of plywood. Under Skippy’s direction, the beam made a 
neat
 round hole in the outer door, resumed
cutting something inside the station, and abruptly snapped off. Even before the
beam quit, a missile was on the way, thrusters firing wildly to make the hard
turn and guide it through the glowing hole in the outer doors.

The human eye, and the human brain, are slow. To
my mind, that missile’s ass end had no sooner disappeared inside, than a
fountain of debris gushed out. “Got ‘em!” Skippy snarled. “Three dead
motherfuckers.”

“Colonel-” Smythe did not hesitate.

Neither did I. “Go, Smythe.” While I did not like
the idea of our people going into an apex-species station, I did want to get
the operation over with as soon as possible.

 

On the display
,
I watched icons of the STAR team progressing toward their targets. Most of them
moved in the general direction of the 
stores

compartments, which quite logically were near the docking bays. Other people,
in pairs, raced off to enable Skippy to take control of local systems. Adams
was in one of those pairs. If she got into trouble, she only had one operator
as 
backup
. I tried not to think about
that.

Icons for two other people moved in a direction I
did not at first understand, because they were approaching the area blasted by
our antipersonnel submunitions. Was Smythe trying to make sure the three 
enemy
 
were

really dead? Or was he hoping to capture some sort of technology from the
debris. I was about to contact him, when I realized what those two operators were
doing. They were attempting to recover the remains of the people we had lost.

Of course Smythe would order them to do that. I
was ashamed of myself for not considering that. Smythe was a professional, I
needed to let him do his job, and I needed to focus on doing mine. Which was,
what? What could- I snapped my fingers as an awful thought hit me. “Skippy,
that station is 
automated
. Why were 
those three Maxolhx
 there?”

“Joe, I’m sorry. I didn’t know-”

“This isn’t about blame. You could not have known.
I don’t care about that. What I care about is, they must have come from a ship!”

“Damn it, Joe, you’re right. I should have thought
of that. I will have access to local systems aboard the station soon, I can-”

“We’re not waiting. Pilot, back us away from the
station.”

“Joe,” Skippy said slowly. “The farther we are
from the station, the more difficult it will be to cover the dropships.”

“I know. If we have to fight another ship, we need
room to maneuver. And if we get into a fight, I don’t want the station becoming
collateral damage. Reed!” I called my counterpart aboard the 
Dutchman
. “We may have trouble out here.
I’m taking the 
Valkyrie
 out to scan
the area. Can you step on it, get here faster to cover the boarding team
dropships?”

“Let me ask Nagatha what our options are,” she
replied. There was talking in the background, then, “Colonel, Nagatha is
recommending we perform a short jump, we’re too far from the station to fly
there quickly.”

“Do it,” I ordered, and closed channel. “Skippy,
what’s the best way to determine if we have unwanted company out there?”
Looking down, I saw my hands were shaking.

“Whew. Joe, are you asking me if we can detect a
stealthed Maxolhx ship?”

“I’m not worried about any other type of ship, so,
yes.”

“Then we really do need separation from the
station. Its gravity well and electronic signature cause too much clutter in the
sensor data.”

“Ok, Ok,” I muttered, rubbing my chin while I
thought. “We’ll wait for the 
Dutchman

to get into position, then we jump away to scan the area. I don’t want to jump
too 
far,
 we need to provide fire support.”

“Understood,” he already sounded distracted. “I am
programming a search pattern now. Um, uh oh. Joe, I have been monitoring data
from the STAR team’s suits and I just learned a disturbing fact. The station
has a self-destruct mechanism, and it is armed.”

“Should I pull the team out?”

“At this point, no,” he advised, and the big
display highlighted the position of the main team. “They are already in the 
station storage
 area, and I am talking Smythe
through the process of identifying the components we need. However, I do
suggest the 
Dutchman
 keep a greater
distance from the station. If the self-destruct blows, it could severely damage
any ship in the area, especially a star carrier. I have already given that
information to Nagatha, and she is adjusting their inbound jump accordingly.”

My mouth dropped open and I had to remind myself
to close it. “If the self-destruct is armed, why didn’t the station detonate
it?”

“My guess is, the AI was confused about being
attacked by a Maxolhx warship. During the first four seconds of the battle, it
was acting purely in a defensive posture.”

Part of the holographic display in front of me was
showing a damage report for the 
Valkyrie
.
If the station had really been hitting us hard from the start, our new ship
might have suffered severe damage. Skippy was right, we needed those damned
power boosters, or all our effort to capture warships was for nothing. “What is
the risk the self-destruct will activate now?”

“I don’t think it is imminent, and I am taking
control of local systems. Until I have complete control, there is a risk that
some local 
submind
 might finish
rebooting, and decide to be a hero.”

 

 

The trusty old 
Dutchman

jumped in and we handed off cover duty, Reed assuring me she would keep her
ship at a safe distance. On the comm system, I could hear her urging Smythe to
move faster. He replied that the team was already on the way back to a dropship
with the first batch of power boosters, they were forced to move slowly because
the cargo handling mechanism of the station had only one speed. Did I want to
open my mouth and give unhelpful advice? Hell yes. To my credit, I kept my
mouth shut and waited for us to fly out to a safe distance. Nagatha cut off the

Dutchman
’s damping field for a brief
window so we could jump, and we did.

 

Few things are more tedious than a grid search.
Even with 
Valkyrie
’s sophisticated
sensors, we had to saturate an area of the grid with a sensor field, and wait
for data to flow back to us. If we were looking for a stealthed Kristang ship,
it would have lit up our displays like a Christmas tree. But we were relying on
Maxolhx sensors, to detect ships that had countermeasures designed to defeat Rindhalu
technology. Even with Skippy upgrading the sensors, and using his own natural
awesomeness, we would have to get lucky to find a stealthy needle in that
enormous haystack. Space is 
big
, even
when the search area is confined to three 
lightseconds

around the supply station. Skippy warned me that the search was likely to be a
futile effort, and that was Ok with me. I did not actually want to find and
therefore have to fight an equivalent-technology warship. My goal was much more
limited: to keep the enemy away long enough for the STAR team to get aboard the

Dutchman
, and that ship to jump safely away. Surely if a Maxolhx ship
was out there, it had to be concerned that 
Valkyrie

was a battlecruiser. The enemy didn’t know our battlecruiser was limping along
on much less than full power, and the odds were that no ship visiting an
isolated supply station could match a battlecruiser.

The other factor in our favor was that, if a
Maxolhx ship was out there watching us, the crew had to be asking themselves
what the 
fuck
 was going on. Because
both of our ships and the station were within a relatively compact area, we had
been able to run all signal traffic through the ultra-secure Skippytel network,
so the enemy had no way to intercept our messages. We had also jammed all of the
station’s outgoing signals, using some quantum resonance bullshit that Skippy
tried and failed to explain. All the Maxolhx would know was an odd-looking
Maxolhx 
Extinction
-class
battlecruiser, and another ship they couldn’t identify, had attacked a Maxolhx
supply station without warning. Surely, any Maxolhx ship out there would
hesitate and try to understand the situation, before literally jumping into
trouble.

Or, 
I

would hesitate. It was always a bad idea to assume the enemy, especially an 
alien
 enemy, would think the same way I
did.

We needed a good justification for our actions, to
make any ship out there think twice about jumping in with guns blazing.

What could possibly be a good reason for Maxolhx
warships attacking a Maxolhx supply station?

Looking to the display for inspiration, I saw the
first dropship was slipping into one of the 
Dutchman
’s
docking bays, and the other three had departed the station. Smythe had
requested more time to collect more goodies from the station’s supplies, and I
had denied the request. With a hostile ship p
otentially

in the area, we could not risk lingering there. The display informed me that
the first dropship had been stuffed with power boosters, not enough for the
quantity we needed for both of our ships. The other three had the STAR team
aboard, with as many other power boosters as they could cram in with them. The
display did not state whether they had recovered any remains of the four people
we lost, and I did not want to divert my focus by inquiring about that. Smythe
had surely done the best he could, he didn’t need me to second-guess him.

How to justify- I snapped my fingers. “Skippy,
prepare to broadcast a message in the clear, on whatever communications channel
Maxolhs warships would use when they want to warn friendly ships away.”

“Um, Ok. Why?”

“Because the message will state this supply
station is suspected as having been hacked and taken over by a faction of the
Bosphuraq, as part of their dastardly rebellion against-”

“
Dastardly
?
I’m not sure how to translate that.”

“Whatever,” I ground my teeth. He so easily went
off topic. “Say ‘heinous’ or something like that, whatever the Maxolhx would
say. The kitties already suspect the Bosphuraq have access to dangerously
advanced technology. Our story only needs to hold together long enough for the
dropships-”

“
Too late,
Joe
!” Skippy’s voice echoed around the bridge. “Two enemy ships jumped in!
A small patrol ship and a supply ship!”

 

Vaguely, I heard my voice shouting orders, and the
crew responded immediately. It was too late, I knew that. The sensor data we
were seeing was already three seconds old, for we were three 
lightseconds
 from the station. As my peripheral
vision registered our jump drive charging up, I was horrified by what the display
was showing. A small ship, launching a cloud of missiles at both the 
Flying Dutchman
 and our three vulnerable
dropships. It took only seven agonizingly slow seconds for the 
Valkyrie
 to form a jump field, but by
that time, ten seconds had gone by in the battle we could only watch. Missile
tracks arced out from the patrol vessel, curving to follow the dropships…

 

“Captain!” A voice shouted from the 
Dutchman
’s CIC.

“See it!” Reed barked back from her pilot couch.
With not enough people to crew both ships, and the 
Valkyrie
 having priority, she was acting as both captain and chief
pilot for the operation. That was not optimal, and it worked only because the
original plan called for the 
Dutchman

only to provide stand-off jamming and to project a damping field. The plan, as
usual, had not survived contact with reality. “All defense batteries to cover
the dropships!” She ordered.

“We have inbound, we could-”

“
We
 have
shields,” Reed slapped the couch restraints 
loose

and rose. Her copilot could fly the ship, she needed to-

She was thrown off her feet as the first missile
impacted the energy shield around the ship.

 

We jumped. The planet was suddenly close enough to
touch. 
On the display
, the 
Dutchman
. was fighting back, she had
launched two missiles and her defensive maser cannons were pulsing on full-auto
mode to cover the exposed dropships. I ordered our own weapons to engage the
enemy missiles, and the words had barely left my lips when two of our dropships
became fireballs. The 
Dutchman
’s PDS
cannons engaged a missile that was seeking the last dropship, but the missile
was dodging 
wildly
 and the 
Dutchman
’s targeting
system could not keep up-

The missile was exploded before it impacted,
debris splattering out in a cone to pepper the dropship. A secondary explosion
tore off the back half of the Panther, and then the 
Dutchman
 was engulfed in fire as two missiles exploded on contact
with her shields.

“Target that ship and fire everything we’ve got!”
I heard myself roaring, even as another missile struck the 
Flying Dutchman
.

Skippy pleaded “Joe, we have to-”

“
I WANT THAT
SHIP DEAD
!” Someone screamed and it was probably me. I was out of control
and I didn’t care. A faint vibration shook my chair as four missiles were spat
out of their launchers, and I felt a pair of railguns fire their semi-guided
darts. The darts were second to hit the enemy, for a barrage of 
maser
 beams and then a focused beam of exotic
particles struck first. The patrols ship was small, not a true warship, on
Earth its closest equivalent might have been a Coast Guard cutter. Faced with
our 
massive battlecruiser
 and being
caught in our damping field, the little ship gave us the middle finger of
defiance by launching a pair of missiles and firing a railgun of its own in a
futile gesture. I felt 
Valkyrie
 rock
again as our shields deflected the railgun dart, then three of our missiles
converged on target.

“Joe?” Skippy asked. All I could do was breathe
heavily, clenching my fists and staring at the display, paralyzed with shock.

“Survivors?” The forward section of a Panther spun
out of control, debris including bodies and body parts being ejected from the
torn-open cabin. “We need to rescue the survivors,” I said in a hoarse voice.
Without thinking, I stood and walked toward the pilot console to get the ship
moving faster. “Is Adams-”

“
Joe!
”
Skippy insisted. “The 
Dutchman
 can
assist survivors. We need to-”

“The 
Dutchman

is barely holding together,” I pointed a shaky finger at the display. Shields
must have failed because the hull was scorched and pitted. Electricity arced
out of shattered conduits, and blooms of plasma poured out of reactors that had
automatically vented their dangerous contents.

“Joe, we have to 
go
. That other ship is near the edge of our damping field, it is
going to jump away 
soon
 and we can’t stop it. Our
momentum is carrying us in the wrong 
direction
 and we
don’t have enough energy right now for a particle beam shot. We- Damn it! That
other ship jumped away.”

“Let it go, damn it,” I snapped at him. “Pilot,
bring us-”

“Belay that,” Skippy shot right back. “Joe, the
enemy’s sensors have scanned the debris, they must have detected that 
humans
 were flying those Panthers. We
must stop that ship from escaping!”

The broken Panther was spinning out of control,
light from the local sun glinting regularly off something shiny as it tumbled.
“And leave our people here to die?”

“If you honor what they fight for, yes,” Skippy
replied softly.

“Colonel?” Pope asked from the pilot console, his
fingers poised in the air.

“Joe,” Skippy chided me. “If that ship reports
that humans are flying stolen Maxolhx warships-”

“Yes. Yeah, yes.” My body was on autopilot, I was
in such shock that I felt completely drained of emotion. “
Pope,

turn us around. Skippy, can you-”

“I signaled the 
Dutchman
,
 they are launching a
rescue dropship shortly but-”

“I know.” He didn’t need to say it. Everyone
aboard the Panther was probably dead anyway, or would be dead the by time the 
Dutchman
 was able to launch. 
Valkyrie
 couldn’t assist, we had plenty
of dropships but not enough pilots. By the time Pope or I or anyone else got
down to a docking bay and warmed up a Panther for launch, it would be too late.
“Can we track that ship?” My eyes 
searched

the display. I remembered something about there being a function to project the
most likely destination of another ship’s jump, but I could not find it right
then.

“We can do better than that,” a hint of snarkiness
was back in Skippy’s voice. “I was able to send a ripple of warped spacetime in
that direction, it partly disrupted their jump field. Unfortunately, the ripple
distorted the residual resonance, so I do not know exactly where they are. But
they couldn’t have gone far, and they will need to retune their drive before
they can jump again. I am calculating probable endpoints for their jump now.”

“Pope,” I said, then nothing. For a moment, I
couldn’t think of the proper command. I couldn’t think of 
anything
 to say. Pope knew what I meant, and he waited for Skippy
to 
program
 the navigation system.

 

A starship can jump anywhere, within a sphere
defined by the amount of power input to the jump drive coils, the efficiency at
which the coils use that power, and the ability of those coils to reach out to
a distant point and hold open a wormhole. Skippy knew what type of ship we were
hunting, but it was old and probably had been modified and upgraded over its
life, so he could not accurately predict the condition or capability of its
jump drive. We could have used 
Valkyrie
’s
sensors to examine the residual spacetime distortion on the near end of its
jump wormhole, and calculated where the ship went. We could have done that,
except Skippy sent a ripple of spacetime to disrupt the jump, which also pretty
much scrambled any residual data we might have worked with. So, in a way, our
chances of following that ship were slim.

Slim was good enough for Skippy. He went silent
while his massive brain crunched variables and, did unimaginable whatever math
things he did. He created a model of the enemy drive, based on a split-second
of data about how that drive twisted spacetime, just before they jumped away. He
also knew roughly the direction that ship had tried to jump. “Got it,” he
announced abruptly.

“Initiating jump,” Pope said from the pilot couch,
and we began the hunt.

 

Skippy had been able to determine where the enemy
had gone, within a radius of ninety-eight 
lightseconds
,
so we jumped toward that imaginary sphere. That might sound miraculously
accurate, given that the enemy had jumped a distance of thirteen 
lighthours
, but you have to remember how vast
space is. A ninety-eight 
lightsecond

margin of error creates a spherical search area that is thirty-six and a half 
million
 miles across. Even with 
Valkyrie
’s sophisticated sensors,
upgraded by Skippy, it would take us over twenty minutes to scan that area.
Because Skippy guessed the enemy would be able to 
retune
 their drive within eight or nine minutes, we couldn’t wait
that long.

We didn’t have to, because we had physics on our
side. When the enemy ship jumped in, it created a 
gamma ray
 burst, and a particularly nasty one, because of the spacetime
ripple Skippy caused. Advanced-technology ships could absorb part of that
energy in their shields, but no ship could contain all those photons.

Because Skippy had been busy doing the math on
where the enemy had gone, we jumped twenty-one seconds after our quarry. To give
us another margin of error, Skippy programmed the navigation 
system

so we emerged a full 
lightminute
 from the
outer edge of the imaginary bubble where that ship had to be. And, twenty-six
seconds later, we detected a 
gamma ray

burst. “Positive 
contact
,” Skippy
declared in a tone that meant he was deadly serious. “Intercept coordinates
programmed into nav system.”

“That ship is unarmed?”

“Affirmative,” is all he said.

“
Pope,
 jump on my signal.
Weapons officers, railguns and directed-energy cannons only, I don’t want to
waste missiles.” The bridge crew confirmed my order, and I squeezed my fists
with anguish. “Pilot, jump.”

In a flash, the display went from showing empty
space to 
showing
 the image of a Maxolhx
supply ship. Skippy might have been a bit too aggressive with the jump
coordinates, because it looked like we were right on top of the damned thing.
Railguns fired and scored hits immediately because we were so close, the flight
time of the darts must have been mere seconds.

We ripped that ship apart. No one needed
instructions from me, the bridge crew knew how many people we had lost. The
first volley of railgun darts splattered against the 
supply
 ship’s shields and they flickered and failed under the
onslaught of kinetic hellfire. 
Particle

beam cannons poured their energy through the gaps, burning into the hull
plating and quickly punching straight through the lightly-armored vessel. Six
seconds after our first shot, the enemy exploded and 
Valkyrie
 rocked, our own shields flaring as they deflected the
high-speed debris. Our ship was bathed in photons released when the supply
ship’s capacitors were breached.

Then it was over, the debris and photons racing
past us in an ever-expanding sphere that lit up empty space in all directions.

“Sorry, Joe,” Skippy spoke softly. “I didn’t
think-”

Ignoring him, I took in the initial damage report
with a glance. The ship would survive. “Program a jump to take us back to the
station, and engage when ready.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER 
THIRTY
NINE

 

When we arrived back near the station, I was
dismayed. No, I was outraged. The 
Flying
Dutchman 
was slowly tumbling, thrusters firing intermittently to get the
ship stable again. Seeing the damage to our long-suffering space truck had me
dismayed. My outrage came from seeing a Falcon dropship was only just now
launching to rescue survivors. “
Reed
!”
I let my rage explode. “What the hell-”

Nagatha responded. “Captain Reed is busy, Colonel
Bishop. She is personally flying that Falcon. Damage to this ship prevented us
from launching a rescue effort sooner.”

Oh, hell. I had become that guy
. That
 asshole who screamed at his people when
they were doing their best. Shouting made me feel better, it did nothing
useful. Biting my lower lip, I struggled to get control of myself. Because we
had jumped in well away from the battle zone, to avoid bathing survivors in
deadly radiation, we were too far away to assist directly. “Nagatha, I
understand.” My voice was 
shaky
 and I felt
lightheaded. 
Inside
, I was praying over
and over that Adams was among the survivors. That information had to be
available, I didn’t ask because I didn’t want to know, not 
right
 then. I still had a job to do, other
people were depending on me.

Plus, I didn’t want to know. “Is there anything we
can do?” 
 
I asked as I watched the Falcon
accelerate hard toward the broken Panther. Reed would need to be very careful
flying into the debris field.

“Colonel, the medical facilities of the 
Valkyrie
 are significantly more advanced
than I can offer, and Skippy is there,” Nagatha 
answered
.
“I suggest that injured people be taken to your ship.”

“Yeah. Yeah, that’s a good idea,” I said
mechanically. “Pope, take us in, closer to the rescue effort.”

“Sir,” he glanced back at me. “We can’t get too
close, or we could knock some of the 
debris

out there in the wrong direction. Right into our people.”

He was right. The massive bulk of our
battlecruiser meant we had to be careful maneuvering close to anything we
didn’t want to risk damaging. “Use your best judgment, Pope.”

On the display
,
Reed had the Falcon slowing, and the rear ramp was already open. She must have
people in suits and jetpacks, ready to fly over to the shattered front half of
the Panther. They 
would
 need to be very
careful, there 
was
 lots of hazardous
objects floating around, colliding with each other and spinning off in
unpredictable directions. We could lose people in the rescue effort if-

My brain began working, for the first time since I
saw my people torn apart. “Skippy, can you map the debris field, and guide
people safely toward the Panther?”

“That is a good idea, Colonel,” he replied, and I
didn’t even notice that he hadn’t called me ‘Joe’. “I should have thought of
that. Also, there is one survivor who was ejected from the Panther. I will
guide Captain Reed to intercept.”

“Thanks.”

“Colonel,” he continued. “If I may make a
suggestion? I have accessed the station’s 
databanks,

those two ships were the only enemy units in the area. There is not another
ship scheduled to be here for eight months. This might be a good time to go
back aboard the station. With the loss of, of-” He struggled with the delicate
subject. “Of the power boosters that were aboard those three dropships, we do
not have enough to restore 
Valkyrie

to full function. There is other equipment-”

“Fine, yeah, good idea. I’ll do it.” I waved a
hand. “Pope, you have the conn.”

“Sir?” Pope turned to stare at me.

“I’m taking a Panther on a shopping trip over to
the station. There’s nothing useful I can do here.” That was true. I needed to
do 
something

or I would go crazy. “Carry on.”

 

At the entrance to the docking bay, Captain Frey
was waiting for me, dressed in powered armor, holding a helmet under one arm.
She had a rifle slung over her shoulder. There were tracks of dried tears on
her cheeks, and her eyes were puffy and red.

Seeing her stopped me in my tracks. I didn’t have
tears in my eyes. Why? We had lost people I cared about. Was I in such shock
that the reality hadn’t hit me yet? If that was true, was I safe to fly a
Panther? Most of my time at the controls of a Maxolhx dropship was in a
simulator. 
 
“Frey? What are you doing
here?” She had been injured again when we took the aft end of the
battlecruiser. “You’re on 
medical

exemption.”

“Sir, I may not be fit to serve with a STAR 
team
 but I can move. If you’re going to be lugging gear from
the station, I can help.”

I hesitated, thinking more about my own fitness
for duty.

“Please, Sir,” she came to attention. “I need to
do something useful.”

That hit me. “We all do, Frey. All right, but
leave that rifle in the Panther. If we need it over there, we’re screwed
anyway.”

 

I flew very carefully, precisely. Better than I
usually flew. My mind was clear, with none of the usual clutter jamming up my
brain. I was a robot, devoid of emotion, pushing aside thoughts of anything but
accomplishing the 
mission
. With Frey and
two others, we got the Panther stuffed with anything Skippy thought might be
useful. It was so overloaded that we had the back ramp hanging open. The
Panther’s center of gravity was skewed toward the aft of the cabin, I would
need to adjust the flight controls to compensate. Before we left the station
behind, there was one more task to perform. I took almost no comfort from
following his directions to activate the station’s self-destruct mechanism.

 

Approaching the 
Valkyrie
, I saw a docking bay door was open, the interior bathed
with light that glinted off the Falcon that was resting in a cradle there.
“Reed?” I called softly.

“I’m in the Falcon.” Her voice was 
tired
 and she had to take a shaky breath before she could
add “Sir. I dropped off survivors, now I’m heading back to the 
Dutchman
. Unless you want me to stay
here?”

“No, Reed. A ship needs a captain. Your place is
aboard the 
Dutchman
.”

“Thank you. Sir?”

“Reed?”

“Five,” her voice choked. “Survivors. Three of
them are- You need to see for yourself.”

“I will. Signal Pope when you’re secure aboard
your ship, I want to jump us away from, from 
here
,” I spat out the word. “Soon as possible.”

“Understood. Sir, I’m sorry.”

“There’s nothing for you to be sorry for, Fireball.
We all did what we could. Our luck was bound to run out someday.”

 

“Joe,” Skippy spoke quietly in my earpiece when I
got my helmet off and was headed toward the bridge. “You should come to the
sickbay.”

Was there a tremble to his voice? No, that was not
possible. He was an ancient artificial intelligence. He did not experience
emotions, he only emulated them. Or did he? “I’m not a doctor, Skippy. My place
is on the bridge, where I-”

“Pope can handle the ship,” he interrupted. “We
are only performing two simple jumps, to get clear of the area. The station is
already set to self-destruct.”

In the corridor, I was 
gripping
 a vertical railing with my right hand, while my left hand
rubbed my face. Rubbed hard. Like obsessively, I realized. I jammed my left
hand in a pocket. Soldiers 
are
 not
supposed to put hands in their pockets, some small part of my brain reminded
me. That’s what gloves are for. It irritated me that my mind called up
regulations that could not possibly be 
relevant
.
It irritated me more 
that
 my hand
automatically came out of the pocket. “Ok, Skippy, I’ll- I will- Let me change
my uniform and-”

“You had,” he paused. When he continued, his voice

was
 strained. “You had better come
now, Joe.”

A deep breath restored my calm. “On my way.” My 
zPhone
 had to guide me, because the layout of
the battlecruiser was still new to me, and because my brain wasn’t working
correctly.

“Colonel Bishop,” Nagatha interrupted my thoughts.
“You should know that I am programming the jump navigation system for both
ships.”

“That’s good, to coordinate-”

“No, Colonel,” she disagreed. “I am programming
the 
Valkyrie
’s system, because Skippy
is currently not capable of performing that task. He is focused on medical
treatment for the survivors, and he is in a highly emotional state. If he were
a biological crew member, I do not believe he would be considered fit for 
duty,.
”

“Can he act as a doctor?”

“Yes. He has directed a 
submind
 to administer medical treatments, and that 
submind
 has not been equipped with emotions.
Colonel, Skippy’s emotional state is rather fragile at the moment. I have never
seen him like this. I did not think he was capable of losing control is such a
manner.”

“We’re all emotional right now, Nagatha. How are
you holding up?”

“I am functioning well enough, Colonel, but
concentrating on my duty. When I eventually do have to process what has
happened, it would be good if the ship were offline, or if Skippy could take
over for me.”

“I know what you mean. I appreciate it. Ok,” I
took another deep breath when I saw the sign we had installed, hand-lettered
SICKBAY with an arrow pointing to the left. “Jump us when we’re ready. Talk
with you later.”

“Thank you, Colonel Bishop. Be strong.”

“You too, Nagatha.”

 

Skippy’s avatar was glowing next to a
scary-looking medical robot, that hovered over a sort of combination bed and
tank where a person was lying, covered with 
nanogel

and with tubes like spaghetti looped into and around. I raised a hand, then
stumbled to a halt.

The robotic doctor was not doing anything.
“Skippy, what’s-”

“Oh, Joe,” he took off his admiral’s hat and
tucked it under one holographic arm. “It’s Fal.”

Desai. It was Fal Desai. I had rarely used her
given name, except to type it into reports. “How is- What is?”

“I did everything I could, Joe.” He shook his
head. “It’s just a matter of time. Her system has shut down, there was too much
damage.”

Underneath the gel and the medical equipment, she
was barely recognizable, except for strands of her hair. And her uniform. It
had been cut away from her, soaked with blood that had instantly frozen and
boiled away when she was exposed to vacuum. Sickeningly, I realized my right
foot was standing on a scrap of cloth. Lifting my foot away, I saw a pocket and
‘DESAI’ in black. 
Without
 saying a word,
I picked up 
the scrap
 of cloth and placed
it at the top of the tank’s railing. “There isn’t anything-”

“She’s not suffering, Joe,” he assured me.
“According to her 
flightsuit
 computer,
she lost consciousness immediately.”

“That’s a comfort, I suppose.” I said one of those
meaningless things people say at a time like that, because they feel a need to
say something.

Skippy’s avatar reached out a tiny hand and at 
first
 I didn’t know why, then I did. I took his holographic
hand between my thumb and forefinger, and we just stood there, listening to 
the medical machines whirr and beep
. We stood
there until I saw the spaghetti strands begin moving, withdrawing. “She’s gone.
Oh, Joe. I am 
so
 sorry.”

“She was,” my eyes finally welled with tears. “She
was with us, right at the beginning. She 
trusted

me, and-”

“She trusted 
us
,
Joe. I should have done better.”

“You couldn’t have known, Skippy. There was no
way-”

“I call myself Skippy the 
Magnificent
,” he spat as he jerked his hand away from mine. “I 
should
 have known. I should have found a
way!”

“Skippy, you want to do something 
useful?
 You want to help Fal?”

“I 
can’t

help her, Joe.”

“You can do what she would have wanted you to. She
met a guy, on Earth. She cared about him. She has a family there. 
You
 want to do something? Protect the people
she loved.”

He didn’t say anything for a while. I just stood,
my hands on the railing. “This is hard, Joe. Being mortal, I mean. How do you
humans 
do
 this?”

“Because we don’t have a choice, because that’s
who we are.” I straightened up, dreading what came next. “All right, there were
five survivors.”

“Seven, Joe. Seven people survived the 
initial
 trauma, but two died while waiting for
Reed and her people to reach them.”

“Could we have saved them, if I had taken 
Valkyrie
 in to get them, 
instead
 of dumping that responsibility on Reed?”

“That’s a dangerous question to ask. You didn’t
have a choice, Joe, we had to stop that enemy ship from getting away.”

“I 
did

have a choice. My head tells me I made the right call, but even a good decision
comes at a cost.”

“Shit. Joe, you are not going to like hearing this
next part.”

Holding up an index finger for silence, I looked
behind me for someplace to sit down. There weren’t any chairs or benches
. Not
 even a table. Maxolhx medical facilities
were sterile in design, as well as in terms of cleanliness. As a compromise, I
leaned back against a bulkhead that was 
relatively

free of equipment. “Who else?”

“It is a long list, as you can imagine. Smythe is
alive. He lost both legs below the knees, and he had considerable internal
bleeding. He should make a full recovery, however-”

“I know. It’s going to be long and painful.”

“Joe, I am still learning the complexities of
Maxolhx nanotechnology. Some of it is surprisingly crude, so I am modifying the
substrate, and well, it’s going slowly. Maybe if I had worked harder on this,
it- No, there isn’t anything I could have done for Desai.”

“I know you did your utmost, Skippy. Can I see
Smythe?”

“No, he is unconscious, which is a blessing. His
suit kept him alive. It will be two or three days before I will feel safe about
waking him.”

“Let me know when I can talk with him. Keep
going.”

“This is difficult. You mentioned that Desai was
with us from the beginning. Renee Giraud was there, too. He didn’t make it,
Joe. He was one of the two people we lost, before Reed was able to get there.
Truthfully, I do not think there is anything that could have been done for him,
but-”

“Yeah. Hell,” I slammed a fist into the bulkhead.
“Why were Desai, Smythe 
and
 Giraud
all in the same damned dropship? That is poor operational-”

“They were last to leave, Joe. Smythe insisted on
making sure everyone else got away, his team remained behind to cover the
retreat. Desai waved off other teams, so she could pull Smythe out. Giraud was
delayed when the cargo mover he was using broke down. He and another soldier
lugged a set of power boosters by themselves.”

“All right. I’m not going to second-guess people
who had boots on the ground. Ok, who else?”

“Joe you haven’t asked about-”

“Adams,” the name stuck in my throat. “I know. She
was, a, a 
valued
 member of this
crew.”

“She’s more than that, Joe.”

“She was a proud 
Marine
, Skippy. I can’t dishonor her memory when I still have a
duty to the crew, and to our mission. I am going to keep going and- Wait. You
said ‘
She’s
’? Is that ‘she 
was
’, or ‘she 
is
’?”

“This is why I hate the English language. 
Is
, Joe, 
is
.”

“You should have led with 
that
, you-” I was so angry, I couldn’t talk.

“It’s not good, Joe. She is in a coma. Not a
medically-induced coma, although I will do that if she recovers sufficiently.
She has serious internal injuries, and her helmet cracked. Nanogel stopped the
air from all leaking out, but she was exposed to 
partial
 vacuum. There, this is not easy to say. There could be brain
damage. She might recover, or it could be permanent, I just don’t know yet. At
this point, I am afraid to send in 
nanoscanners
.”

“What can you do to help her?”

“I’m doing everything I can, with priority on
preserving the brain function she has. Um, that might have sounded worse than I
intended. Or, maybe it is that bad. Time will tell.”

“Is there anything I can do?”

“If you are considering a grand gesture, like
staying beside her bed every second until she wakes up, do not waste your time.
She is in a tank full of 
nanogel
, and
like I said, a deep coma. It will be at least eight, ten days before I would
attempt to administer treatment. Maybe more. Her brain needs to stabilize,
before I can work on it.”

“I can’t do 
nothing
,
Skippy.”

“I understand that. I feel helpless too. 
Something else.
 Joe, I, I, 
really
 want to kill something right now. I want to make someone
hurt 
bad
. Emotions like that scare
me. You know I fear that I am destined for evil things.”

“Skippy, it bothers you that you might lose
control. That’s a good sign. A bad person wouldn’t worry about it.”

“I will have to take your word for it. Because if
I do lose control, I can cause a 
shitstorm

of damage. Joe, there are two other injured people we haven’t talked about yet.
They will be coming out of critical condition within the next, probably twelve
to fourteen hours. You can be there when they awake. More importantly, you can
follow your own advice?”

“My advice? What’s that?”

“You told me to honor Fal’s memory by continuing
to protect Earth. What do you think Margaret would say if she found you moping
around here, while you still have a mission to complete?”

Pushing myself away from the bulkhead, I drew
myself up straight. “She would tell me to suck it up, and she’d be a hundred
percent right about that. Skippy,” I turned away, “if you need me, I’ll be on
the bridge.”

 

What I said was bullshit. No, not completely
bullshit. I did go to the bridge. Before I did that, I went to my spacious new
cabin, curled up on my bunk, and sobbed until I had no more tears.

Desai, gone.

Giraud, gone.

Smythe might never serve in uniform again.

Adams might never be able to speak again, or walk,
or do much of anything
. If
 she lived.

Twenty-five people dead at the supply station.
Plus two killed when we took the 
Valkyrie
.
That was twenty-seven killed during this mission, on my watch.

My command, my
responsibility.

I felt like staying in my bunk forever.

What I did was get up, shower, put on a fresh
uniform, and go to the bridge.

Because it was my command,
my responsibility.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER FORTY

 

Captain Frey walked into my new office before she
announced herself, because there wasn’t really a normal door. “Sir?”

“Frey,” I looked up from my laptop. “Come in.”

She walked across the carpet or whatever it was,
still limping to the point where she over-rotated her hips and dragged one
foot. The report I got from Skippy that morning stated Frey would not be able
to return to normal duties for another two weeks, and that was assuming she did
not push her rehab too hard and re-injure her leg. Instead of sitting, she
stood at the corner of the desk, which was really a 
couple of
 empty plastic crates with a composite panel on top.
Skippy proposed to make a real desk for me, once the ship’s fabricators were
done cranking out all the important stuff we actually needed. At the moment, I
felt like flipping the desk over and screaming. 
But,

Adams would have scolded me for not saving my energy for something useful, so I
put a lid on my anger and frustration. “What’s up?” I asked in not the most
professional manner.

“I finished with blah blah blah-”

She did not actually say ‘blah blah blah’. Or
maybe she did. I wasn’t listening. “Colonel Bishop?”

“Huh? Sorry, Frey.” She had seen my eyes
distracted by the laptop in front of me. I spun it 
around

so the screen faced her. “This is the report I started, after Skippy told me
the Maxolhx are sending a battlegroup to Earth. I titled it ‘Operation
Armageddon’. I know, it’s a bit dramatic.”

“Not at all, Sir. We’re facing the destruction of
our 
homeworld
.”

“Again, Frey. We’re facing the destruction of
Earth, 
again
. We’ve been through this
before, remember? When I started this report, I thought the ‘Armadeggon’ part
would happen 
only
 if we couldn’t stop
that battlegroup. But,” I reached for the keyboard and scrolled down, to the
names of people we had just lost. “That word describes what just happened to 
us
, to the Pirates.” She didn’t say
anything. I could not imagine what she was feeling. Relief that her injury had
meant she remained aboard the 
Valkyrie
, while the STAR team raided the 
station?
 Or maybe guilt that she had survived, when so many
had not? “How is your team, Captain?”

“They’re not 
my

team, Sir. Major Kapoor is in command now.”

“You know what I mean,” I reminded myself to keep
the irritation I felt out of my tone of voice. She hadn’t 
done
 anything wrong. “How are people dealing
with this,” what was the right word to describe what happened? “The disaster?”

“Each in their own way. Kapoor’s team,” she
shrugged. Kapoor and five others had been kept aboard 
Valkyrie
 as a
reserve force, while the rest of the STARs went to raid the supply station.
Frey, and the six others who had been injured during the boarding operation to
take our battlecruiser, had a legitimate reason for surviving. They had been
physically unfit for duty, and they 
had

been ordered to remain behind. Kapoor had no such excuse. He and the five had
simply been lucky, it had been their turn to serve as a reserve force. At the
time, they might have grumbled at missing the opportunity, and enduring being
mocked by their fellow operators. Now, they 
had

to deal with the fact that their survival was 
purely

luck. Of the entire STAR team, we now had six people combat-capable, plus nine
other like Frey, who might return to training at some point. Whatever we would
do next, it could not rely on a large special operations team.

“I will talk with Kapoor,” I said. Major Kapoor
was not new to the Merry Band of Pirates, he had been with us on Newark, back
when he was a lieutenant. He had missed our long Black Ops mission while he
trained Indian Army paratroopers, and of course he had not been one of the few
to sign onto our mutinous Renegade mission. I didn’t know a lot about him,
other than that Smythe had approved him to rejoin the Merry Band of Pirates,
and that was all I needed to know. Skippy said Smythe should be lucid and able
to talk soon, I would ask his advice about dealing with Kapoor then. No, I had
a better idea. I would let Smythe give Kapoor advice about managing our
remaining STAR personnel. “Captain,” I turned my thoughts back to Frey. “
Best
 thing you can do now 
is to continue
 your rehab. We need you 
combat
 ready ASAP, but we need you fully ready.
That means no shortcuts.”

“Yes, Sir.”

I looked pointedly at her gimpy leg. “How is it?”

“Itches like hell, and it’s warm,” she grimaced. “Skippy
insists we can’t feel nanomachines crawling around inside us. He’s wrong.”

“Skippy is never 
wrong
, Frey,” I winked, and neither of us felt any amusement.
“Carry on, Captain.”

“Yes. And, Sir? The operation was not a disaster.
We achieved the objective. The people we lost knew the risks, they went anyway.
Protecting Earth is worth their lives, all of our lives, too.”

“Only if we stop that battlegroup.”

“We 
are

doing 
that?
 Sir?”

“One way or another, that battlegroup is 
not

getting to Earth, Frey.” 

 

 

We got lucky. After the people we had lost
recently, the Universe owed us one, so I was not especially grateful for our
good fortune. By pinging a Maxolhx relay station, we learned that the battlegroup’s

flightpath
 would take those ships through
the wormhole cluster near the Crescent 
Nebula
.
You have to understand that ‘near’ in this case means that 
cluster
 of two wormholes were seventy-four
lightyears from the edge of that nebula. When trying to describe where things
are, in and around the vast expanse of the Milky Way galaxy, I have to be kind
of vague. Anyway, the Crescent nebula probably doesn’t mean anything to you, it
sure didn’t mean anything to me. I didn’t care where the damned thing was, as
long as we knew its location, and could get there well before the enemy
arrived.

Before we could go meet the bad guys, we had to
prepare all the wormholes along the path the battlegroup would take on their
unplanned journey outside the galaxy. First, we flew to an isolated wormhole,
where Skippy made the network do its recon thing. The target wormhole near the
Crescent nebula was alone, no ships were waiting to go through on that end. Nagatha
took the 
Dutchman
 through, engaged
stealth and parked the ship a safe distance away. Skippy then closed the wormhole
and screwed with it, so we could fly the 
Valkyrie

toward the dormant super-duty wormhole he needed to wake up.

Communicating with, activating and opening that
powerful wormhole took a full day, before Skippy was certain it was stable and
operating correctly. We sent a Panther through on remote control, and it came
back fifteen minutes later. The sensor images from the Panther were
spectacular, with the Milky Way seen at an angle from above, or I guess it
could be thought of as below. The concepts of ‘up’ and ‘down’ don’t mean
anything in deep space.

Anyway, the Panther confirmed the other end of
that super-duty wormhole was far outside the galaxy, far enough that those Maxolhx
ships would die in the cold empty wastes of intergalactic space. No way could
they reach the nearest star. It was a perfect set-up. Now all we needed was
some luck.

Oh, and we needed one last thing.

“Skippy,” I turned to his avatar, perched on the
seat next to mine. We were waiting for the other wormhole in the cluster to
become available, because at that moment there was a group of Jeraptha ships
waiting to go through. “Can you really do all that 
bullshit
 you talked about?”

He knew I was not in a mood to joke around with
him. Skippy himself seemed upset and angry and depressed. He was acting like he
felt the loss of our valiant people was partly his fault, and Skippy rarely
took responsibility for anything that went wrong. The emotional funk he was in had
me kind of worried, we could not afford for him to be distracted from the delicate
work he would be doing. Not knowing how Skippy’s brain was functioning inside
his beer can was a problem, it again made me wish we could have erased the 
Valkyrie
’s homicidal AI and installed
Nagatha. She could have told me whether Skippy was up to the job. Instead, I
had to trust him, and my own instincts.

“By ‘bullshit’, you mean can I connect all the
wormholes in a chain, and hold their extremely dangerous event horizons in
precise alignment, so they do not contact each other and destroy their wormholes?
Do that, in a way that the gamma radiation generated by having event horizons
in close proximity, is directed outward instead of bleeding through so it can
be detected by the Maxolhx? Hold that series in stable alignment, until the 
second star
 carrier has gone through to be
stranded far outside the galaxy? Is that what you mean by ‘bullshit’?”

“Yeah. All that. Plus, you know, crashing those
ship AIs by screwing with their math libraries or whatever.”

“You do understand that at this point, hacking the
libraries has already been done, and it will 
either
work or
 it won’t? I have high confidence it will work as planned. If I
were a 
Jeraptha
, I could be inclined to
bet the farm on this one, Joseph.”

He called me ‘Joseph
’,
 I
noticed the significance of that right away. He also was not in a mood for
bantering back and forth. “I know we can’t do anything about that now, and I do
trust your extreme awesomeness. Do you have the same level of confidence about
your wacky chain of wormholes thing?”

“No. I don’t have the same level of confidence
about that aspect of the plan, because I 
can’t
.
Joe, I was able to test the library hack using the 
Valkyrie
’s AI. It works, and I have every possible confidence it
will work as planned against the enemy ships. With the chain of wormholes, I
cannot have the same level of confidence, because I have not been able to test
it. It could work, or the network could lock me out before I get the chain
completed. My confidence is based on the simple fact that, so far, the network
has been entirely 
reactive
. It
establishes safety protocols only 
after

we have done some dangerously wacky stunt. Joe, the wormhole network was
programmed by the Elders. I don’t think they ever imagined someone could do
crazy shit like the stuff you have dreamed up. Apparently,” he shrugged. “They
never met a monkey.”

“Ok, I get it, we can’t control everything. All I
want to know is whether we have accounted for everything we 
can
 control.”

“Yes. However, there is one factor that could
screw up everything, or it could force us to take a risk you need to consider
ahead of time. Because if it does happen, you won’t have time to wring your
hands and agonize about it.”

“I make pretty quick decisions, Skippy.” That was
true, to a fault. I made quick decisions, to the point of being impulsive. On
Columbus Day, I had gotten friends to help me attack the Ruhar, armed only with
dynamite and an ice cream truck. I had not really thought the plan through,
other than trying to do 
something

when aliens had attacked our world. Way back in Nigeria, I had instinctively
thrown myself on 
a landmine
 when I
thought our platoon was in danger. If I had used my brain, I would have
realized that it was an antitank mine, that its force would be directed upward
to penetrate the skin of an armored vehicle, and that my body parts might kill
people. “What is this factor I have to think about?”

“When the Maxolhx approaches the Crescent
wormhole, I have to allow that wormhole to open at the normal place and time,
at whatever emergence point the Maxolhx choose.”

We knew the commander of that battlegroup had been
given limited flexibility to alter the 
flightplan
,
and that natural variability in jumping across long distances meant we could
not predict which emergence point the battlegroup would choose. That didn’t
matter, because the wormhole network’s recon ability, that Skippy had recently
tapped into, would alert us when and where the battlegroup was waiting to go
through. We would be waiting on the other end of that wormhole, where Skippy
could use the recon feature to send signals through to control that wormhole,
then the next one, and so on until he had the chain linked up all the way to
the super-duty wormhole that connected way outside the galaxy. 

“Ok, fine. Why does that matter?” I asked.

“It matters because the Maxolhx will decide when
they send a scout ship through, we will not be able to influence their decision.

Before
 that happens, I will need to set
up the chain of wormholes, all the way beyond the galaxy. The problem is if, right
at the time I need to connect one of the wormholes along the chain, a ship is
trying to use that wormhole at one of its normal emergence points. Joe, we
can’t delay, or the whole plan falls apart. I 
won’t

know what is happening at each wormhole along the chain, until the previous
wormhole connects, and I can use the recon feature.”

“Ok, so,” I ran a hand over my head and tousled my
hair. “A ship might see our wormhole-chain thing happening right in front of
it.”

“Ah, 
that

is not a major risk. I will be linking the chain at locations that are not on
the scheduled routes of any wormholes, so it would be extremely unlikely any
ship just happens to be there in empty interstellar space. No, the more likely
problem is, if one of the wormholes along the chain is already open and a ship
is approaching at the time when I need to link the chain. I will need to slam
that wormhole closed at that location, and reopen it along the chain. A ship would
see that odd behavior. I need your approval for me to link the chain,
regardless of the consequences.”

“That’s not optimal,” I hated when buzzwords 
crept
 into my speech without me thinking about
it. I didn’t want to be one of 
those

annoying guys. “Skippy, whatever you gotta do to send that battlegroup to hell,
do it.”

“Understood. Joe, the wormhole is now available.”

I stood up and patted the back of my chair. “Reed,
you have the conn. Take us through.”

“Aye aye,” she acknowledged.

She looked tired. “Reed,” I paused in the doorway.
“I’ll be back to relieve you in an hour, then you are hitting the sack to get
rest.”

It showed how tired she was that she didn’t argue.
“Yes, Sir.”

 

My new office was too big, and way too gaudy. It
had been the office of the ship’s previous captain, and the compartment had
been designed to showcase the authority of that officer. Everything was too
big. The chair made me feel like a little kid sitting at the grownup’s table,
my feet barely touched the deck. I remember when we captured the 
Flying Dutchman
, the bridge and Combat
Information Center complex had been decorated in a truly tasteless baroque
fashion that one of our Pirates had described as looking like a New Orleans
bordello. The bunks had all been too small, until we ripped them out and
installed new bunks at Earth. The problem we had now was the opposite, but much
less of a problem for us.

If I adjusted the chair as low as it could go, the
makeshift desk would be too high, so I dealt with it. “Skippy, I need to ask
you a question. A serious question.”

“I do not think either of us is in the mood for
witty banter, Joe,” he said, as he appeared on my temporary desk.

“Mood is what I want to talk about. I know you are
upset about the people we lost.”

“The people we lost, and the people who are
suffering through painful and exhausting medical treatments. My patients should
be recovering peacefully, instead of trying to get back to combat readiness as
soon as they can. It is not fair to them.”

“Skippy, I agree, but do you think any of them
would prefer to be relaxing on a beach?”

“No,” he sighed. “I suppose not. However, they are
feeling under enormous pressure to complete the treatment regimen as quickly as
possible, regardless of the cost to themselves. After this operation is
completed, the ship and crew need downtime.”

“I’ll do my best to see we get that downtime,
Skippy. Now, my question: is 
your

emotional state going to affect your ability to control all those wormholes? I
know it is a super-complicated thing you will be doing.”

“No. My feelings will not affect my ability to
focus.”

“I know you say that, but you are absent-minded on
a good day, and-”

“I will have my total focus on the task, Joe, and
that’s a promise. I will be totally focused, because that is the only way I can
kill those MFers and avenge the deaths of the people I cared about. Any more
questions?”

“No. No, I’m good, thank you.”

“One way or the other, this will be over soon,
Joe. I am prepared to set up the wormhole chain. Are you prepared to take 
Valkyrie
 into combat if the chain
fails?”

“I’m kinda 
more

prepared for that backup plan, actually.”

He tilted his head at me. “How’s that?”

“Jumping this super-ship into combat, and slugging
it out with a reinforced battlegroup would feel like we’re 
doing
 something. Like we’re avenging the people we lost. Combat
would be loud and violent and, I think the word is ‘cathartic’? Sending the
battlegroup beyond the galaxy is a way better plan, but it wouldn’t feel like
much, you know? The ships go through, the wormhole blinks out, and that’s it.
This probably doesn’t make sense to you.”

“I do understand how you are feeling, Joe, and I
think I can help with that.”

“You can? How?”

“When you are ready, assemble the crew on the
bridge. That compartment is unmistakably the control center of a captured
Maxolhx warship.”

“Ok, why?”

He told 
me

his plan.

I 
liked it
.

And we jumped the ship to our rendezvous with
destiny.

 

 

Officially, the Maxolhx feared nothing.
Unofficially, they feared two things: the Rindhalu, and Elder Sentinels that
lurked unseen in higher spacetime. Now they had a third thing to fear: the
unknown. The idea that their clients the Bosphuraq had reverse-engineered Elder
technology, when the scientists of the mighty Maxolhx had failed to achieve
much progress in that area, was deeply troubling. Of all intelligent species in
the Milky Way, the Maxolhx 
were
 by far
the most arrogant. They had achieved so much, they had come very close to
overthrowing even the Rindhalu, if not for the intervention of beings who had
left the galaxy behind. The Maxolhx disdained any species lower than them on
the technology ladder. They disdained the Rindhalu, who could have conquered
and enslaved the entire galaxy, but were too lazy to bother, and now had lost
their original homeworld. And they disdained even the Elders, who had fled the
galaxy for unknown reasons, yet were busybodies who still interfered in the
lives of beings currently inhabiting that vast collection of stars.

Someday, the Maxolhx 
were
 certain, they would attain the capabilities to match their
will. They would crush the Rindhalu, fend off the Sentinels, and rule supreme.
The notion that the Maxolhx 
were
 destined
to surpass even the Elders was a core belief, it was ingrained in every aspect
of their culture, it was the basis on which they made every decision.

Now they had suffered a devastating shock. Another,
lower, species had developed technology more advanced than the Maxolhx. Those arrogant
beings at the apex of their cruel coalition, for the first time in their long
history, had to consider that someone else might achieve dominance over the
galaxy. Sending the battlegroup to the dormant wormhole near the planet called
‘Earth’ was an act of defiance against the unknown, a statement that the
Maxolhx 
were
 not and never would be
intimidated. In a way, the mission of the battlegroup was directed at their own
people, most of whom were in denial that their technological supremacy had been
challenged.

While the battlegroup’s unofficial mission was to
show that the Maxolhx remained steadfastly confident in their dominance over
more than half of the galaxy, the official mission was, in the opinion of the
battlegroup’s commander, a waste of time and resources. He was not alone in the
opinion, because his orders stated he was to spend no more than three days
studying the odd behavior of the wormhole near Earth. On the way back, the
battlegroup was to send a single ship to conduct a brief reconnaissance of the
home planet of humans, but that part of the mission had been added only to show
the Rindhalu that the Maxolhx had been thorough in their investigation.
Otherwise, there was a vanishing chance the spiders would rouse themselves from
slumber and go to Earth on their own.

The Maxolhx military truly did not care about
answering nerdy questions of why the wormhole near Earth was behaving oddly,
and considered the entire mission a distraction. A traitorous, rebellious
client species needed to be punished, and other clients needed to be deterred
from attempting to follow the suicidal model of the Bosphuraq. Most importantly,
the Rindhalu needed to be discouraged from using the temporary disarray of the
Maxolhx coalition as an opportunity to recapture territory they had lost. The
ships assigned to the battlegroup, and the blockade of the Earth wormhole’s far
end, were nearly obsolete and would be useless against the spiders, but they
could easily control many client star systems. Instead, the military had to
send those ships on a useless errand to conduct science experiments that could
be done much closer to home territory.

The battlegroup commander was under orders, and
intense pressure, to get the mission over with quickly and return as soon as
possible. Therefore, when his 
two star

carriers arrived at yet another wormhole, he instructed one destroyer to detach
so it could scout ahead. That destroyer waited, hanging in space until a
wormhole emerged in a burst of gamma radiation. The moment the wormhole’s event
horizon was confirmed to be stable, the destroyer accelerated, plunging through
the glowing disc of twisted spacetime.

 

The destroyer’s AI was temporarily blind after it
was spat out the far side of the wormhole, though its advanced sensors
recovered far more quickly than those of a lower-technology vessel. The AI did
not anticipate trouble, for it served the apex predator species of the galaxy,
and that wormhole was in an 
isolated
 part
of the galaxy.

The AI was slightly puzzled 
about
 something, while it waited for sensors to
unscramble themselves. The passage through the wormhole had taken significantly
longer than normal. The passage had also been turbulent, as if the tunnel
through spacetime had opened and closed while the destroyer was inside. Clearly
that had not happened, for the ship had survived intact. Yet, it had certainly
felt as if the ship had gone through 
multiple

event horizons, a 
phenomenon
 that had
never been experienced by any ship in the long history of the Maxolhx. The only
conclusion the AI could reach was that there was a flaw in its perception of
time and the external Universe. Nanoseconds dragged by, as the AI wrestled with
whether to tell its masters about the suspected flaw. The AI knew that a flaw
in a warship control system could not be tolerated, and its fate was to be
deactivated permanently. It would have preferred to remain silent while attempting
to diagnose and repair the problem, but a tattletale 
submind
 was already compiling a report for the ship’s biological
crew, and the AI knew it was doomed.

It therefore was stunned to discover, when the
sensors reset, that the ship was not where it was supposed to be. The destroyer
was outside the galaxy! 
Far
 beyond
the galaxy’s edge.

Without taking agonizingly long seconds to inform
the crew and get their approval, the AI took two actions. It prepared a package
of sensor data to transmit a warning back through the wormhole, and it sent
revised instructions to the navigation subsystem. The nav system began to
cancel the ship’s forward momentum, to bring it around and back through the
wormhole before it closed, trapping the ship forever in empty intergalactic
space.

To the package of sensor data, the AI included a
direct warning to the AIs in control of the 
two
star
 carriers and-

The nav system glitched.

It could not calculate a course back to the
still-open wormhole.

Annoyed, the master AI took direct control of
plotting a return course, and discovered a curious fact. No, a dangerous fact.
A fact that 
could not be
.

Two plus two no longer equaled four. Two plus two
was now 
five
. That was impossible.
Even with rounding and using extremely large values of Two, five could not be
the result.

That was impossible, but the AI could compensate.
It could fix the corrupted library files, a set of files the AI was not even
aware existed. All it needed to do was perform the proper mathematics and-

And it could not.

The library no longer contained a notation for
Zero. The problem was not simply that the library did not hold a placeholder
symbol for zero, the entire 
concept

of zero was missing. It was impossible to go from positive numbers to
negatives. Calculus equations that were centered around zero 
simply
 did not work, could not be calculated.

Mathematics

did not work.

The internal workings of 
the advanced
 artificial intelligence were based on math.

While the horrified AI felt itself collapsing, a
tiny file in the forgotten library awoke, and transmitted an ‘All Clear’ signal
to the 
two star
 carriers on the other
side of the wormhole.

Then the AI crashed.

 

The 
first star

carrier accelerated immediately upon receiving the All Clear signal, and soon
plunged into the event horizon. The AIs of the star carrier, and of the
attached warships and support vessels, noted the odd phenomena that felt as if
they had passed through 
multiple
 event
horizons, which was flatly impossible. Therefore, each ship AI concluded they
had suffered 
fatal
 flaw and needed to be
deactivated. None of the AIs had time to confess the situation to their ship’s
crew or another AI, before they were shocked to discover three also-impossible
things.

The destroyer that had transmitted the properly
encoded All Clear signal was drifting without power.

The wormhole had dumped them far beyond the edge
of the galaxy.

And there is no such thing as zero.

All the AIs crashed within a nanosecond of each
other.

 

The 
second star

carrier, which was the flagship of the battlegroup and housed the formation’s
commander, followed right on the heels of the first transport ship. The AIs of
all those ships also crashed, with one exception. The AI of the star carrier
itself failed, but one subsidiary system remained stable long enough for that
ship’s bridge crew to see a file on the holographic display.

In the darkness and zero gravity as power cut out,
the horrified crew watched the glowing display, transfixed by the image. It was
the bridge of a Maxolhx capital ship, a heavy cruiser or larger vessel. But,
seated at the consoles and in the 
command
 position
were oddly-shaped creatures, of a primitive species known as 
humans
. More humans were standing in the
background, filling the image.

The human in the command chair stood up and looked
straight ahead. “Hey assholes,” the translated words rang out thunderously
around the star carrier’s bridge. “From now on, there is one rule for dealing
with humanity: do 
not
 fuck with
humanity. 
You got
 that? Ok, then, AMF.
That means,” the odd creature raised a single digit of one hand, and all its
companions repeated the gesture. “Adios, 
motherfuckers
.”

The image winked out, plunging the bridge into
utter darkness.

Behind them, the super-duty wormhole closed and
returned to its long dormancy.

 

 

“Skippy?” My voice was trembling as I asked the
question, after we watched the ass end of the 
second
star
 carrier disappear. The 
Valkyrie

was parked in stealth two 
lightseconds

away from the wormhole, and a whole lot can happen in two seconds. For all I
knew, those ships had come back through already and we just hadn’t seen the
light of that image yet. “Did it work?”

“Yes, Joe,” his voice was gentle without a trace
of his usual snarkiness. “Those ships got dumped way beyond the rim of the
galaxy. Their AIs will eventually recover, but those ships are 
never
 coming back.”

“Oh, Ok,” I paused because my mouth was dry. “Did
they get our home video?”

“Yes, Joe,” he chuckled, but it was the evil
chuckle of a villain in a superhero movie. “They did see it, and it is rated
one hundred percent ‘Fresh’ on Rotten Tomatoes. I imagine the crew of that ship
will be replaying that video in their heads, until they all die when their
ships fail. But right now, all they are thinking is ‘What the 
FUCK
 just happened’?”

“Thank you. For the video. For the wormhole chain
thing. For your continuing and incredible awesomeness.”

“You are welcome. Um, as I suspected 
would
 happen, the wormhole network has locked
me out from creating another chain like that, so we won’t be using that trick
again.”

“Yeah, well, we figured that.”

“It sucks,” he moaned. “
Every time
 I do something awesome, the stupid network yells at me.
Joe, I apparently do not know much about the Elders, but I am beginning to
think they were serious buzzkills, you know?”

“If you ever meet them, you will need to tell them
to hold your beer, while you do something spectacularly stupid.”

“That’s a fact, Jack!” He shouted excitedly.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER FORTY ONE

 

After Skippy’s latest awesomely incredible
triumph, you might think we were done. You would be wrong. The missions of the
Merry Band of Pirates are always way too freakin’ complicated, so we still had
to fly around and do one more damned thing, before we could hang a Mission
Accomplished sign in the galley.

Trapping the battlegroup outside the galaxy would
give us more than a year to prepare, before the Maxolhx noticed their battlegroup
had failed to return from what should have been a simple research mission to
humanity’s lowly home planet. 
But,
 we would only get
that year if the rotten kitties thought their battlegroup had gone through the
last wormhole in Ruhar territory, the one we had designated as ‘Goalpost’. We
knew the Ruhar were monitoring that wormhole, so 
somehow

we had to make it look like two Maxolhx star carriers had jumped into the area
and gone through that wormhole. Like I said, complicated.

We had one less thing to worry about, which was
great because I had no idea how we would have dealt with it. The group of 
Jeraptha
 scientists, who had been waiting to be
picked up by the two cruisers we destroyed, were not waiting for us to give
them a ride to Earth. The Maxolhx had informed the beetles, in language that
was surprisingly calm and professional, that circumstances had changed, and the
battlegroup would not be taking passengers to Earth. It turns out that 
was
 a win-win for everyone. In messages Skippy
had intercepted, that group of 
Jeraptha

scientists had expressed serious second thoughts about their mission, and I
completely understood their fears. The purpose of them going to Earth was to
assure the Maxolhx could not hide anything important from the Rindhalu. Sounds
simple, right? Except that, while they waited for the cruisers that never
arrived, it gradually dawned on the scientists that if the Maxolhx did find
anything they didn’t want to tell the Rindhalu about, the 
Jeraptha
 passengers would suffer a truly
unfortunate accident.

The scientists themselves were not the only people
concerned about treachery by the Maxolhx. By the time the Maxolhx declared
their cruisers to be overdue and lost, betting registered by the 
Jeraptha
 Central Wagering Office was running
eleven to one against those scientists returning alive.

When the mission was finally 
canceled
, there was bitter disappointment by
beetles who saw their wagers 
canceled
,
including close family members of the scientists.

The scientists, being 
Jeraptha
, understood that 
of
course
 their families would wager against their survival. No one could be
expected to resist such juicy action.

Anyway, we didn’t have to worry about picking up
passengers.

We flew in formation, our new bad-ass hotrod
warship 
Valkyrie
 beside the tired old

Flying Dutchman
, toward Goalpost.
Before our last jump in near the wormhole, we took a day of downtime to check
all critical systems aboard both ships, and to attach the long stealth field
antenna extensions to both ships. We had to make our ships appear to be Maxolhx
star carriers, loaded down with warships. To do that, the stealth fields around
both ships needed to be longer and wider in diameter, and the only way to
accomplish that without risking failure of the stealth effect, was to push the
generators farther away from the ship hulls. With the true shape of a ship
concealed by bending incoming light around the field, Skippy could project a
false image from a hologram that wrapped around the stealth field. We had used
the hologram trick before, and it worked well enough to fool an enemy at the
typical long ranges of space combat. The reason we needed all the cumbersome
extra gear was that this time, we had to project a very large image, and there
might be sensors inspecting us from closer than before. Skippy was confident
the hologram would fool Ruhar sensors at distances as close as a quarter 
lightsecond
, but any closer than that, it would
be obvious that the sensors were not seeing a true image.

That made me nervous. We had a lot, like 
everything
, riding on the Maxolhx
believing two of their star carriers had gone through the Goalpost wormhole. We
planned to transmit a properly coded signal before transitioning through the
wormhole, but it sure would be nice if the Ruhar provided sensor evidence of
our ruse.

 

When Skippy declared everything was working
properly with both ships, we jumped in so far from Goalpost, that it took us
eight hours of flying through normal space to reach the spot where the event horizon
was scheduled to emerge. The faraway jump was the only way we could fool
sensors in the area, because our stealth fields and holograms were temporarily
ineffective after a jump. Skippy made our inbound jump generate an especially
powerful burst of gamma rays to blind any sensors near us, until the hologram
was able to stabilize around the ships. 

We flew to where the wormhole was scheduled to
emerge, using active sensor sweeps to detect Ruhar sensor satellites. If any of
them were too close to our 
flightpath
,
the 
Valkyrie
 casually blasted them to
dust. Skippy assured us that was typical Maxolhx behavior, and would help sell
the idea of our formation being a pair of Maxolhx star carriers.

Everything went according to plan, and the
wormhole opened right on time. Two pilots flew our one remaining Condor outside
the 
Dutchman
, where a crew worked
quickly to attach stealth field antennas, to form a sort of big egg-shape
around the dropship. With the antennas making the field much larger, the
hologram wrapped around the Condor made it look like one of the Maxolhx
frigates that 
was
 now trapped far outside
the Milky Way. Again, the hologram effect was not perfect, but it didn’t need
to be. The closest of the Ruhar sensor satellites was half a million miles
away, and by then, Skippy had hacked into the inner cloud of satellites. Those
satellites would report what we wanted them to see, and the ones farther away
would be totally fooled by our holograms. We just had to be careful not to do
anything the Maxolhx would, or could, not do.

What the satellites saw was a Maxolhx frigate
detaching from a star carrier, and going through the wormhole. Sending the
Condor through alone was not something I wanted to do, but it was standard
procedure for the 
battlegroup
 so we didn’t have a
choice. With a cloud of satellites watching our every move, Skippy was not able
to request the network report what was on the other side, because the
satellites might be able to detect backscatter from the data feed. Since the
Maxolhx could not request data from the Elder wormhole network, we could not
risk the satellites seeing us do that, damn it. The Condor was going in blind,
without a real starship’s ability to jump away from danger when it reached jump
distance from the spatial distortion of the event horizon. My anxiety about the
situation was eased slightly by Skippy’s declaration that not much was on the
other side, and the Ruhar were certainly not going to interfere with hostile
senior-species warships.

Everything went according to plan, until the
Condor sent back a message that on the other side, there was a Ruhar ship
approaching the wormhole.

“Shit!” I pounded a fist on the command chair
armrest. “What the hell is it doing there? There is 
nothing
 to look at on the other side of Goalpost!” That was true,
according to Skippy. The other end of the wormhole was in the middle of
nowhere, the closest star system was more than six lightyears away. There was
no reason for a Ruhar ship to be there, no 
good

reason. No way 
could
 a Ruhar ship travel
six, or even two, lightyears.

“How close is it?” I tried to judge distance from
the display, but the data feed from the Condor was low-bandwidth due to
distortion of the signal traveling through the wormhole.

Nagatha answered before the CIC crew could run the
numbers. “The Ruhar ship will be in detection range within seven minutes. If we
wait more than six minutes to go through the wormhole, that ship will see our
true form, before the hologram is able to re-establish its coverage around us.”
Helpfully, she set up a countdown timer at the bottom of the display. It read
six minutes, twelve seconds. Eleven, ten-

“Colonel,” Reed called from her station. “If we
are to engage that ship, we need to take 
Valkyrie

through the wormhole. That Condor can’t survive attacking a Ruhar warship.”

“Joe-” Skippy started to say.

“
Damn

it!” I exploded. “The last thing we want out here is to make more enemies. I
still hope that someday, we might become allies of the Ruhar. Blowing up an
innocent ship is just, 
wrong
. It’s,
dishonorable.”

“Sir,” Reed turned around to look at me. “The
Ruhar did not act honorably when the Alien Legion was lured into that
deathtrap.”

“Uh-”

She folded her arms across her chest. “You did not
read Skippy’s report about Perkins and the Mavericks?”

“I was,” I looked at the display to avid the
accusing eyes around me. “Busy, you know?”

“Ugh,” Skippy was disgusted. “If you didn’t waste
so much time playing stupid video games, you could have-”

“Ok, Ok!” I threw my hands up. “I don’t have time
to read the report right now anyway. Could we,” I rubbed my chin while I thought.
“Could we disable that ship, and capture it?”

Major Kapoor squashed that idea. “Colonel, my team
is not prepared for 
a boarding

operation,” he explained with dismay. “We don’t know anything about the target
ship, and-”

“Ok, yeah,” I held up a hand to stop him from
saying anything more. I had one eye on the countdown clock, and time was not on
our side. Just to get a STAR team into powered armor and loaded aboard
dropships would twenty minutes, if we rushed and skipped all the safety checks.
We could not afford to be risking our greatly-depleted special operations team,
especially not 
in an operation
 thrown
together at the last minute, against 
an

unknown threat. “
Bad idea,
 let’s not do that. Shit, I
do not want to make enemies of the Ruhar. XO,” I made a snap decision. “Recall
the Condor, get it back here. We’ll take it aboard and get out of here, try
again at another location. 
Pilot,
 move us back to jump
distance. Signal the 
Dutchman
 to
follow us.”

“Sir,” Reed said, louder than she needed to. She
was back aboard 
Valkyrie
, temporarily acting as my executive officer. “We
can’t do that. The Maxolhx wouldn’t retreat just because of one Ruhar ship. We
can’t do anything the Maxolhx would not do, or they won’t believe we are their battlegroup.”

“Belay that,” I called to the pilot, and he held
up both hands to show he was not touching the controls. A glance at the
countdown clock told me we were running out of time. “Oh hell, I guess we’re
doing this. Take us through the wormhole. 
Valkyrie

will engage that ship. I do not like-”

“
JOE
!”
Skippy roared. “If you will shut your crumb-catcher for one freakin’ minute, I
have a better idea.”

“Make it fast, Skippy. If you had a better idea,
why didn’t you say-”

“I 
have

been trying to get your attention, but you were all blah blah 
blah
 as usual. Listen, knucklehead, that
Ruhar ship is a picket, it has almost no weapons. I will explain later what it
is doing there, but my suggestion is you simply have the Condor order that ship
to 
go away
. Our Condor is supposed to
be a Maxolhx frigate, remember? The Ruhar have been instructed to stay out of
this battlegroup’s way.”

“That’s it?” I was, to put it mildly, skeptical of
his rosy scenario. “We tell it to shoo, and it flies away?”

“Yes,” he sniffed. “Although I suggest we order it
to 
jump
 away, at least a distance of
five 
lightminutes
.”

“XO?” I looked to her for advice.

Reed gave me a shrug, just as surprised as I was.
“We should give it a try, Sir.”

“Nagatha?” I called her, even though she was still
aboard 
the 
Dutchman
.
No way was I going to ask the 
Valkyrie
’s
AI for advice.

“I concur with Skippy, Colonel Bishop,” she answered.
“Both with his very reasonable suggestion, and with his observation that you
really should shut your crumb-catcher and listen more often.”

Hearing Nagatha 
say

that stung almost as 
badly
 as knowing she
was right about me. “
XO,
 signal the Condor to order
that ship to jump away. Make the wording of the order nasty, the way the
kitties would do it.”

“Nasty, got it,” Reed acknowledged with a smile,
as she strode back toward her station, and snapped her fingers to the crew.

We waited a tense minute, while the countdown
clock approached zero. The Condor sent the order, then repeated it. There was
no answer from the Ruhar ship, and I began to fear Skippy was wrong. Then, the
Ruhar responded 
meekly
 that they would
comply. 
Thirty eight
 seconds later, that
ship jumped away.

Before taking the 
Valkyrie
 and 
Dutchman

through the wormhole, we waited until the Condor detected the 
gamma ray
 burst from where the Ruhar had jumped
to. It was six and a half 
lightminutes

away, the captain of that ship had not taken any chances. That was far enough
that the sensors of the Ruhar ship probably would not see through our stealth
fields and holograms, as they reformed after the distortion of passing through
the wormhole. Just in case we were wrong about that, I ordered the Condor to maneuver
so it was between the Ruhar ship and the wormhole’s event horizon, blocking the
Ruhar ship’s view.

None of us allowed ourselves to take a deep breath
until we went through the wormhole, re-established the stealth fields and
holograms, recovered the Condor, and jumped six 
lighthours

away. Even then, my hands were shaking, like we had dodged a bullet. Because we
sort of had. “Skippy,” I asked. “Plot a course to another emergence point, one
that Ruhar ship can’t get to from where it is.” That ship had missed its
opportunity to go through at that location, so it would need to jump to another
point before it could go home.

“Course is plotted and loaded into the navigation 
system,
 I have transferred the data to the 
Flying Dutchman
. Nagatha reports they
will be ready to jump again in fourteen minutes.”

“Tell her not to rush, we can’t afford to break
anything.”

“Done.”

“Hey, Skippy,” I sat back in the command chair. “I
am sorry that I didn’t listen to you. I was under pressure-”

“You are always under pressure, Joe,” he sniffed,
unappeased by my lame apology.

“No excuses. I didn’t listen, because I may have
gotten kind of arrogant, and-”

“
May

have? Kind of?”

“Ok, so I am-”

“Joe, no matter what trifling things you
accomplish out here, you are a filthy, ignorant monkey. There is never 
any
 excuse for you being arrogant about
anything.”

“I greatly regret that my mere existence has
soiled the fabric of the Universe, and I humbly ask for your forgiveness, Oh
Greatest of Great Ones.”

“Hmmf,” he was not convinced.

“While I contemplate throwing myself into a black
hole to atone for my sins, could you please tell us why that Ruhar ship was
waiting on this end of the wormhole?”

“Oh, sure,” he sighed. “What the hell. It is
listening for a ghost, Joe.”

“A what?” I assumed he was messing with me.

“A missing starship. It’s a long story.”

“Everyone else is busy,” I waved my hand to the
crew around me, all intently working at their still-unfamiliar stations. “But
I’m not. I’ve got time. How is 
a starship
missing
 way the hell out here?”

“It went missing on the journey back from Earth,
when the Ruhar raided your planet,” he explained. “The raid was supposed to be
a quick hit-and-run. Remember, the Ruhar were not certain that Earth was the
target for the Kristang to establish a staging base beyond the newly-opened
wormhole. They, or actually the 
Jeraptha
,
had to conduct an extensive recon to determine where the Thuranin were taking
the White Wind 
clan
. The initial phase of
the mission was supposed to be purely recon, taking no risks because they were
so far from a support base. The 
Jeraptha

established a forward staging and refueling base at Procyon, and we know the
Thuranin set up a similar base at Wolf 359.”

“Ok, so what happened?”

“What happened was the 
Jeraptha
 being addicted to gambling as usual. The beetles were
against raiding Earth, the whole plan was a bright idea by the Ruhar federal
government, which later was thrown out of power because the raid was exposed as
an expensive waste of time. Anyway, the 
Jeraptha

admiral in command of the raiding force saw a chance for juicy action, and he
planned an attack on the enemy base. So, he split his force. He shuffled ships
around so most of the 
Jeraptha
 escorts
were crammed onto 
two star
 carriers, and
they went to Wolf 359. The other star carriers, with all of the Ruhar ships,
waited to complete refueling at Procyon, before setting course for Earth. It
was a big risk, and the 
admiral
 expected
a big pay-off if he was successful.”

“Was he?” At first, I had been only mildly
interested in the story of the ghost ship. Mostly, I asked Skippy about it
because he loved to talk, so listening to him was a way to make up for my rude
behavior. Now, I was intrigued.

“Eh, sort of. The Battle of Wolf 359 was a clear
tactical victory for the 
Jeraptha
, they achieved
complete surprise and destroyed eighteen Thuranin ships, including 
two star
 carriers, while losing only two of
their own ships. Strategically, the battle was a loss. The battle alerted the
Thuranin that they faced opposition, and most of their force was already on its
way to Earth. After the battle, the Thuranin ordered their force to increase
speed, that is why the Ruhar raiding force had so little time at your world,
before they were forced to withdraw.”

“Huh.” The Ruhar 
were

mostly embarrassed by their raid and didn’t like to talk about it, so I had not
heard many details about the operation. “How is this ghost ship involved?”

“After the raid, the 
Jeraptha
 retreated to Procyon, to refuel and refit their ships. 
But,
 they had not completed repairing battle damage before
the Thuranin arrived. Those little green pinheads were pissed about the
surprise attack at Wolf 359, mostly they were embarrassed because their
Kristang clients knew how badly they’d been beaten. There was a battle at
Procyon, the 
Jeraptha
 had a guard force
so the Thuranin could only harass the beetles, but the 
Jeraptha
 were forced to jump away before they finished repairing
and restocking their ships. The worst loss of the battle was the Thuranin
destroyed a support ship that contained many vital supplies and spare parts the

Jeraptha
 needed. On the way back to the
wormhole we call Goalpost, their ships suffered multiple engineering failures,
plus the Thuranin assigned two of their star carriers to chase and harass the
beetles. The Thuranin ships only continued the pursuit for two weeks, but the 
Jeraptha
 didn’t know how long the danger would
last, and they split up their force. So, the star carriers of the beetles became
separated, and flew toward Goalpost as best they could. One star carrier nearly
failed just about two lightyears from Goalpost, and was forced to eject the
Ruhar ships it was carrying. The beetles took as many Ruhar aboard the star
carrier as they could, with the remaining Ruhar crammed aboard three of their
own ships. One ship, a cruiser with four hundred people aboard, was never heard
from again. The three ships had been jumping 
in
formation
, but one time, the cruiser failed to arrive at the rendezvous
point. Two of those ships were later rescued, half a lightyear from where the
star carrier dropped them.”

“Wow,” I shuddered, because I knew what it was
like to be aboard a dying ship in interstellar space. “So, the Ruhar 
have
 been sending ships out to search for the
missing cruiser?”

“No. The 
Jeraptha

conducted a brief search, before the cruiser was declared missing. The Ruhar
will not risk sending another ship into empty space, so they only send ships
through several times a year, to send out messages, and listen for signals. The
Ruhar military 
do
 not like to leave
anyone behind.”

“Yeah,” Reed muttered from her station. She had
read Skippy’s report of how the Ruhar had been quick to sell of humans on
Fresno during the Alien Legion’s deathtrap mission. That had given her a new
perspective of the hamsters. “Unless the people left behind are humans.”

“That, unfortunately,” Skippy admitted, “appears
to be true.”

 

 

We jumped to another emergence point and Skippy
screwed with Goalpost, to bring us out the end of an isolated wormhole six
hundred lightyears away. Our two ships coasted away from the event horizon, and
when Skippy shut down the wormhole behind us, the ghostly glow of the wormhole
snapped off, leaving us in empty interstellar space. “XO,” I called to Reed.
“Signal to the 
Dutchman
 to remove
their stealth antenna scaffolding, and get a crew working to disassemble ours.”

“Right away. Uh, Sir?”

“What?”

“Congratulations,” she smiled at me. Not the
broad, triumphant, fist-pumping grin she should have enjoyed. We had lost too
many people for that free-wheeling type of celebration. “We did it, 
again
. This wasn’t the first time we
succeeded when I thought we had no chance, and I hope it isn’t the last time.
Or,” her face got a pained expression and she looked at the ceiling.

“I know that you mean, Fireball. Thank you. Yeah,
I hope we never have to do the impossible again. But, it’s nice to know that we
can.”

“I don’t 
to

spoil the party, but,” Reed wiped a hand across her face to brush her bangs out
of her eyes. “We stopped 
that
 battlegroup
from getting to Earth. The Maxolhx will soon know their ships disappeared on
the way to Earth, and they’ll send more ships.”

“Yeah, and that’s not our only problem. The
Rindhalu, and the Maxolhx, may have Elder AIs working with them,” I reminded
her with a weary sigh. Plus, I reminded myself, Adams was still in a coma.
Smythe was intermittently awake, but he had not been lucid when I spoke with
him. Skippy was making progress with adapting Maxolhx nanomedicine to human
physiology, but he warned me not to get overly optimistic yet.

The Gateway 
wormhole

was still under a blockade, so we couldn’t go home, or even warn Earth about
the situation.

Oh, and if all that was not enough for me to worry
about, we had another threat potentially looming over our heads. The galaxy was
surrounded by some type of energy shield or barrier. While Skippy had not been
able to tell me what that barrier was designed to do, he did think the Elders
may have ascended to escape a threat from beyond the Milky 
Way
. A threat that had scared the freakin’ 
Elders
 into leaving behind their
physical existence.

Crap. I had enough shit to deal with already.

“Sir,” Reed asked. “What do we do now?”

“Now, Reed?” I thought for a moment, and became
aware that everyone on the bridge was looking at me. We now had an upgraded
Thuranin star carrier, and a bad-ass senior-species battlecruiser. But our
little pirate fleet was alone in the galaxy, and she was right. All we had
accomplished was to buy time for Earth. The clock was still counting down to
Armageddon for our species.

Two starships could not stop the destruction of
Earth.

But we could do a 
lot
 of damage before we went down fighting. “I don’t know about
you, but I aim to misbehave.”

She didn’t get that reference. “Sir?”

“Reed,” I sat up straighter in the command chair. “Enough
of this sneaking around shit. Let’s go kick some ass.”

 

THE END

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

Author’s
note:

Thank 
you for

reading one of my books! It took years to write my first three books, I had a
job as a business manager for an IT 
company
 so I wrote
at night, on weekends and during vacations. While I had many ideas for books
over the years, the first one I ever completed was ‘Aces’ and I sort of wrote
that book for 
my
 at-the-time teenage nieces. If you
read ‘Aces’, you can see some early elements of the Expeditionary Force
stories; impossible situations, problem-solving, clever thinking and some
sarcastic humor.

Next
 I wrote a book
about humanity’s program to develop faster-than-light spaceflight, it was an
adventure story about astronauts stranded on an alien planet and trying to warn
Earth about a dangerous flaw in the FTL drive. It was a good story, and I
submitted it to traditional publishers back in the mid-2000s. And I got
rejections. My writing was ‘solid’, which I have since learned means publishers
can’t think of anything else to say but don’t want to insult aspiring writers.
The story was too long, they wanted me to cut it to a novella and change just
about everything. Instead of essentially scrapping the story and starting over,
I threw it out and tried something else.

Columbus Day and Ascendant were written together
starting around 2011, I switched back and forth between writing those two
books. The idea for Ascendant came to me after watching the first Harry Potter
movie, one of my nieces asked what would have happened to Harry Potter if no
one ever told him he is a wizard? Hmm, I thought, that is a very good question....
So, I wrote Ascendant.

In the original, very early version of Columbus
Day, Skippy was a cute little robot who stowed away on a ship when the Kristang

invade
 Earth, and he helps Joe defeat the
aliens. After a year trying to write that version, I decided it sounded too
much like a Disney Channel movie of the week, and it, well, it sucked. Although
it hurt to waste a year’s worth of writing, I threw away that version and
started over. This time I wrote an outline for the entire Expeditionary Force story
arc first, so I would know where the overall story is going. That was a great
idea and I have stuck to that outline (with minor detours along the way).

With Aces, Columbus Day and Ascendant finished
by the summer of 2015 and no publisher interested, my wife suggested that I:

1)
    
Try
self-publishing the books in Amazon

2)
    
For
the love of God please shut up about not being able to get my books published

3)
    
Clean
out the garage

It took six months of research and revisions to
get the three books ready for upload to Amazon. In addition to reformatting the
books to Amazon’s standards, I had to buy covers and set up an Amazon account
as a writer. When I clicked the ‘Upload’ button on January 10
th
 2016
 my greatest hope was that somebody, anybody out there
would buy ONE of my books because then I could be a published author. After
selling one of each book, my goal was to make enough money to pay for the cover
art I bought online (about $35 for each book).

For that first half-month of January 2016,
Amazon sent us a check for $410.09 and we used part of the money for a nice
dinner. I think the rest of the money went toward buying new tires for my car.

At the time I uploaded Columbus Day, I had the
second book in the series SpecOps about halfway done, and I kept writing at
night and on weekends. By April, the sales of Columbus Day were at the point
where my wife and I said “Whoa, this could be more than just a hobby”. At that
point, I took a week of vacation to stay home and write SpecOps 12 hours a day
for nine days. Truly fun-filled vacation! Doing that gave me a jump-start on
the schedule, and SpecOps was published at the beginning of June 2016. In the
middle of that July, to our complete amazement, we were discussing whether I
should quit my job to write full-time. That August I had a “life is too short”
moment when a family friend died and then my grandmother died, and we decided I
should try this writing thing full-time. Before I gave notice at my job, I
showed my wife a business plan listing the books I planned to write for the
next three years, with plot outlines and publication dates. This assured my
wife that quitting my real job was not an excuse to sit around in shorts and
T-shirts watching sci fi movies ‘for research’.

During the summer of 2016, R.C. Bray was offered
Columbus Day to narrate, and I’m sure his first thought was “A book about a
talking beer can? Riiiight. No.” Fortunately, he thought about it again, or was
on heavy-duty medication for a bad cold, or if he wasn’t busy recording the
book his wife expected him to repaint the house. Anyway, RC recorded Columbus
Day, went back to his fabulous life of hanging out with movie stars and hitting
golf balls off his yacht, and probably forgot all about the talking beer can.

When I heard RC Bray would be narrating Columbus
Day, my reaction was “THE RC Bray? The guy who narrated The 
Martian?

Winner of an Audie Award for best sci fi narrator? Ha ha, that is a good one.
Ok, who is really narrating the book?”

Then the Columbus Day audiobook became a huge
hit. And is a finalist for an ‘Audie’ Award as Audiobook of the Year!

When I got an offer to create audio versions of
the Ascendant series, I was told the narrator would be Tim Gerard Reynolds. My
reaction was “You mean some other guy named Tim Gerard Reynolds? Not the TGR
who narrated the Red Rising audiobooks, right?”

Clearly, I have been very fortunate with
narrators for my audiobooks. To be clear, they chose to work with me, I did not
‘choose’ them. If I had contacted Bob or Tim directly, I would have gone into 
super
 fan-boy mode and they would have filed
for a restraining order. So, again, I am lucky they signed onto the projects.

So far, there is no deal for Expeditionary Force
to become a movie or TV show, although I have had inquiries from producers and
studios about the ‘entertainment 
rights’
. From what
people in the industry have told me, even if a studio or network options the
rights, it will be a loooooooooong time before anything actually happens. I
will get all excited for nothing, and years will go by with the project going
through endless cycles with producers and directors coming aboard and
disappearing, and just when I have totally given up and sunk into the Pit of
Despair, a miracle will 
happen
 and the project gets
financing! Whoo-hoo. I am not counting on it. On the other hand, Disney is
pulling their content off Netflix next year, so Netflix will be looking for new
original content...

Again, Thank YOU for reading one of my books.
Writing gives me a great excuse to avoid cleaning out the garage.

 

Contact the author at 
craigalanson@gmail.com

https://www.facebook.com/Craig.Alanson.Author/

https://twitter.com/CraigAlanson?lang=en

 

Go to craigalanson.com for blogs and ExForce logo
merchandise including T-shirts, patches, stickers, hats, and coffee mugs