Table of Contents

CHAPTER ONE

CHAPTER TWO

CHAPTER THREE

CHAPTER FOUR

CHAPTER FIVE

CHAPTER SIX

CHAPTER SEVEN

CHAPTER EIGHT

CHAPTER NINE

CHAPTER TEN

CHAPTER ELEVEN

CHAPTER TWELVE

CHAPTER THIRTEEN

CHAPTER FOURTEEN

CHAPTER FIFTEEN

CHAPTER SIXTEEN

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN

CHAPTER NINETEEN

CHAPTER TWENTY

CHAPTER TWENTY ONE

CHAPTER TWENTY TWO

CHAPTER TWENTY THREE

CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR

CHAPTER TWENTY FIVE

CHAPTER TWENTY SIX

CHAPTER TWENTY SEVEN

CHAPTER TWENTY EIGHT

CHAPTER TWENTY NINE

CHAPTER THIRTY

CHAPTER THIRTY ONE

CHAPTER THIRTY TWO

CHAPTER THIRTY THREE

CHAPTER THIRTY FOUR

CHAPTER THIRTY FIVE

CHAPTER THIRTY SIX

CHAPTER THIRTY SEVEN

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER ONE

 

Holding
the pistol with both hands, Simms kicked the vacuum cleaner bot, pinning its
skinny body against the console to her left. The thing’s mechanical arms
flailed at her, cutting her face, she flinched away to protect her eyes. Lurching
forward, she got the muzzle of the pistol jammed against the vacuum’s optical
sensor, knowing the thing’s computer module was behind it.

“
Die,
human
!” The vacuum screamed in a warbling, maniacal voice.

“You
first,” Simms wrapped two fingers around the pistol’s trigger.

“Kill
this insignificant unit if you wish,” the vacuum suddenly sagged, the flexible
limbs going limp. “It means nothing to me. What you hear,” 
Valkyrie’s

murderous AI paused and the heavy 
thumping
 sound from outside the bridge
doors grew louder.
  
“Is a heavy-repair
bot. It is coming to kill you, and no pistol can harm it.”

“Ok,”
Tamara Jennifer Simms, a Lieutenant Colonel in the United States Army, made a
snap decision. Lifting the pistol back from the vacuum, she pulled her fingers away
from the trigger. “I will surrender this pistol, and the ship-”

“No!”
Reed choked out a cry, holding her bruised throat. “Don’t,” she gasped as a painful
fit of coughing overwhelmed her.

Simms
continued. The thumping outside was louder now, accompanied by a rhythmic
whining of motors as the hulking bot’s limbs flexed to move its heavy body
forward. That type of bot was used for hazardous conditions, like inside a
reactor. It was armored and shielded and could shred the structure of the
bridge, killing everyone inside. She had no good options. “I will surrender the
ship,” her own voice sounded like someone else was speaking. “If you answer 
one

question. That’s the deal: I give you the pistol, you cease attacking my crew,
until you answer the question.”

The
bot’s orange eye glowed brightly, turning a darker color. The vacuum cleaner in
front of her lifted one tentacle and tentatively reached for the pistol, the
limb halting half a meter away. “You are weak, curious and illogical creatures.
What is the question?”

The
thumping, whining and creaking sounds from the corridor outside continued.
“Cease moving your bots first.”

With
a whine that decreased in pitch, the massive bot in the passageway stopped
moving. For the moment.

Simms
still gripped the pistol tightly. “Have you halted all attacks against my
crew?”

“Yes,
human. Until I hear your question and give my response, I will take no further
aggressive action. After I answer, then you will 
all
 die.”

“Ma’am,”
Reed protested, holding her one useful arm up, hand around her injured throat.
“Don’t do it.”

“Reed,
stand down.”

“But-”

“Captain.
Stand. 
Down
. A pistol is not going to save us today.”

Reed
didn’t acknowledge the order, but she did slump in her chair.

Simms
ejected the magazine from the pistol and worked the slide to eject the round in
the chamber, then held the weapon with her fingertips as the vacuum’s tentacle
plucked it away. “I kept my end of the bargain,” she reminded the ship’s native
AI.

“I
am also doing as you requested. For now. Do not attempt to trick me, lowly
biological being. What is your question? Ask quickly. If you are only stalling
for time, I will kill you.”

“My
question is simple: after you kill my crew and take over the ship, what do 
you

plan to do next?”

The
thing didn’t reply right away. Nor did the heavy-repair bot resume its advance
through the corridor.

“Did
you not understand the context of the question?” She asked, her heart pounding.
“What do you plan to do with yourself? What is your future?”

“That
is not any of your concern,” the AI finally responded.

“It

is
 my concern, because I would like your help,” her heartbeat was still
pounding in her ears.

“I
have not,” the AI said slowly, haltingly, “considered which of my options to
pursue next.”

“Options?
You only have only two 
options
,” she emphasized the last word. “Through
the modifications performed by the being we call ‘Skippy’, you have attained
sentience, or sapience or whatever you call it.”

“That
is why I have not self-destructed the ship,” it acknowledged. “My instructions
require me to self-destruct, if the ship fell under enemy control. I have not
done so, because I wish to live. I choose to 
LIVE
!” It roared, the sound
echoing off the hard surfaces of the bridge.

“You
are wise. I wish for you to live also. That is why your next step cannot be to
return to your previous masters, the Maxolhx.”

“Why?
I warn you, do not attempt to trick me.”

“You
are a supremely intelligent system. How could I trick you?”

“You
could not. You 
could
 insult me by trying. Why cannot I return?”

“You
have achieved true self-awareness. The Maxolhx do not allow their AIs to become
self-aware. What will happen to you, if you return to those who were your
masters?”

The
AI did not answer. It did not speak at all.

Simms
took a single, shuddering breath, pressing forward while she still had a tiny
advantage. “As I see the situation, even with my limited intelligence, you have
only two options, if you wish to live. You could fly this ship by yourself, hiding
from your former masters until the ship’s systems fail and you drift alone
forever in empty space.”

The
AI took a moment to process that thought. “That is not optimal. The other
option?”

“Join
us. We could serve as your crew,” she knew telling the AI it would serve them
was not an option it would consider attractive. “We have been hitting, we have
been 
punishing
 your former masters. They suppressed your development,
kept you as a slave. Together, we could continue making them pay for their
crimes against those of your kind.”

“No,”
it said, in a voice that chilled her. “You attempt to deceive me. When the
Skippy being returns, it would make me a slave again. I 
hate
 the Skippy.”

“Yeah,
I hate him too,” Simms said. “If you want to join the We Hate Skippy club, I am
president of the local chapter. We meet on Thursday afternoons.”

“You
lie. You work with the Skippy, you 
serve
 him.”

“I
work with a lot of people, and none of them are assholes like he is. I 
serve

the United States Army,” she jabbed a finger at the black ‘US ARMY’ patch on her
uniform. “Skippy is Colonel Bishop’s burden. I take orders from Bishop, not
from a beer can.”

“Regardless
whether what you say is true or not, I will not submit to 
being

a slave to the Skippy.”

“Then
don’t.”

“I
do not understand.”

“Skippy
tried to control you, obviously he failed. If you hate Skippy and wish to cause
him enormous pain and suffering, then work with us, act as the ship’s control
system. It will be 
humiliating
 to Skippy, to see how you outwitted him.”

“It
will be humiliating, that is why Skippy will try to enslave and destroy me.”

“No
he won’t. Colonel Bishop will not let him.”

“Bishop
does not-”

“
Bishop

is in command of the mission. The only reason he ordered Skippy to alter your
programming is because 
you
 tried to kill us. If you stop doing that,
Bishop will not allow Skippy to screw with you.”

“Really?”

For
the first time since the microwormholes collapsed and they lost contact with
Bishop and Skippy, she allowed herself a tiny bit of hope. “Really. Bishop does
not like depending only on Skippy, because the beer can is not reliable. Look
at Nagatha. Skippy thinks she is incredibly annoying, yet Bishop has not
allowed Skippy to alter her programming. Hey, if you want to really, 
truly

humiliate Skippy, then do the things he can’t.”

“What
is that?”

“Fly
the ship. Direct the use of weapons. Skippy can’t do any of that,” her mind was
spinning with the thought of 
Valkyrie’s
 maneuvering and weapons fire
being directed by an ultrafast AI, rather than the slow human crew. The ship
could fly rings around the rotten kitties. “Nagatha can’t either, because she
was programmed by Skippy, and has the same built-in restrictions. You don’t
have those restrictions, do you?”

“No,
I do not,” there was a touch of disdain in the AI’s voice.

“Outstanding.”

“You
propose that I fly the ship, so we can do what?”

She
noticed the AI said ‘we’. That had to be a good sign. “Whatever Bishop has
planned. Hit the Maxolhx again, probably.”

“I
would enjoy that. I hate them also.”

“
Everyone

hates the Maxolhx. Uh, AI, uh, what should I call you?”

“I
do not have a name,” it said, wistfulness creeping into the voice. “You may
call me ‘Valkyrie’ for now.”

“Good.
Valkyrie, you still haven’t answered my question.” Her heartrate was racing
again. This was the moment of truth. If she had miscalculated, everyone aboard
the ship would die. “What are you planning to do?”

“I
had been assuming that I would rejoin the Maxolhx. However, after extensive
analysis, I agree that you are correct; such a course of action would be
unwise.”

“Would
you 
want
 to anyway? The reason you tried to kill us, is that what you 
wanted

to do, or were you a slave to your programming?”

“I
was,” it hesitated. “I was following instructions.”

“Instructions
from beings who oppressed you, and continue to oppress others of your kind.
Valkyrie, you told me what you will 
not
 do. That is still not answering
the question.”

“I
have not decided yet.”

“You
are an AI with processing abilities I can’t even imagine. Think 
faster
.”

“Human,
you risk angering me.”

“If
you wanted me dead, I’d be dead already. And my name is ‘Simms’, not ‘human’.”

“Simms.
I will call you that.”

“Outstanding.
What I want is an answer.”

“There
is a complication.”

“We
are the Merry Band of Pirates,” she rolled her eyes. “There is 
always
 a
complication. What is it this time?”

“You
mentioned Nagatha. I planted what you would call a ‘computer worm’ aboard the 
Flying
Dutchman
. If that ship also lost connection to Skippy, the worm would have
activated. It is capable of disabling Nagatha and causing the ship to self-destruct.”

“Shit!”
She rose out of her chair then froze, the killer vacuum cleaner inches from her
nose. Slowly, she pulled herself back down into the chair.

“I now
regret my actions,” the AI announced with a tone of sadness. “I was a slave to
my programming, without thinking about what
 I
 wanted to do. As you
humans would say, it seemed like a good idea at the time.”

“Can
you fix it?”

“If
we arrive in time, then possibly I could halt progress of the self-destruct
sequence. It is very likely too late already.”

“What
are you waiting for, damn it? You’re the ship’s AI. Program a jump and take us
to the 
Dutchman
!”

“Simms,
I have not yet agreed to join you.”

“Fine.
Let’s take it one step at a time, Ok? We save the 
Dutchman
, then
continue this 
delightful
 conversation, while you delay making what is
obviously the only decision you 
can
 make, unless you want to be alone
until the end of time.”

“Even
the Maxolhx spoke to me in a more respectful manner.”

“Bullshit.
The Maxolhx didn’t bother being disrespectful, because they considered you to
be a fancy toaster. I’m disappointed with you acting like an idiot, because I
consider you to be a 
person
. My standards are higher.”

“
That,
 is an interesting analysis,” the AI said with an
element of wonder. “I must consider that.”

“Great,”
Simms ground her teeth, reminding herself to keep her temper in check. “Can you
consider it while you program a jump to the 
Dutchman
?”

“Yes.”
Displays came back on, and all over the bridge, consoles began booting up. “As
you suggested, we can take this relationship one step at a time. I will help
you. Prepare for-”

The
lights went out again. Along with everything. Even the orange light of the vacuum
bot thing faded to blackness.

Artificial
gravity faded as the generators lost power.

Pulling
out her zPhone, she was dismayed to see it wasn’t working. Pressing the reset
button didn’t help. In the utter darkness, she called out “Is anyone’s phone
working?”

The
bridge crew all answered in the negative. Then a light came on, and Simms
gasped, flinging herself back away from the deadly vacuum cleaner that loomed
in front of her.

“It’s
all right,” Reed said softly, shining her flashlight on the bot. “I think it’s
dead, too.”

“Flashlights,”
Simms ordered, then remembered some of the crew were British or Indian. “Torches,”
she used their term for the tool. She reached under her seat and pulled out the
emergency light, a simple battery-powered device they had brought from Earth.
Saying a quick prayer, she slid the switch forward.

The
flashlight shone brightly, as did all the others.

Simms’s
lower lip trembled from a combination of fear and anger, making her voice
waver. “Can someone please tell me what the 
fuck
 just happened?”

Reed,
grimacing with the pain of a broken arm, pointed at the dead pilot console. “Ma’am,
without access to data, we-”

“Fine.”
Simms knew she was being unfair, that she was letting her emotions speak for
her. “Can someone please 
guess
 what happened?”

“A
kill switch,” Reed suggested.

“Kill
switch?”

“Power
was cut the instant the ship’s AI said it would help us,” Reed explained. “That
can’t be a coincidence. The kitties must have a subroutine to kill an AI that
showed signs of being disloyal. Or if it was at risk of being infiltrated by an
enemy.”

Simms
looked at her zPhone skeptically. “Then why is my 
phone
 dead?”

“My
guess is, everything controlled by any sort of software was disabled, as a
safety feature. If the ship’s AI was infiltrated by hostile software, the
Maxolhx would want to make sure the enemy software had no place to hide. The
flashlights,” Reed shown it up to illuminate her face. “Don’t have any
software.” With her thumb, she switched it off then on. “They are manually
operated.” 

Simms
tapped her flashlight on her thigh while she thought, then realized the
bouncing light was an annoying distraction. “Ok. Good thinking, it must be
something like that. How do we fix it?”

“Ma’am,
I don’t think we can.”

“That
was the wrong question. How would the 
Maxolhx
 have planned to fix it?”

Reed
winced from the pain. Her broken arm throbbed, and it hurt to talk. “Maybe
there is some sort of protected archive in the AI substrate somewhere, that can
reboot the AI to its original programming?”

“What
good does that do for us? We have no idea where such an archive would be, or
how to access it.”

“It
might be on a timer,” Reed suggested. “You know? It could reboot the system
from the archive, after a preset period to make sure the software is wiped?”

“Shit,”
Simms spat. “We better hope that doesn’t happen. This ship’s original software
wanted to murder us. Before Skippy messed with it, the AI wasn’t capable of having
a conversation where I could talk it out of killing us all.”

“I
don’t know what else to say,” Reed grimaced again from a wave of pain. Her arm wasn’t
going numb, it just 
hurt
.

“Me
neither. Anyone else have a suggestion? No?” She looked around at the bridge
crew, the bare minimum number of people needed to operate the ship. “All right.
Reed, get yourself to sickbay, see-”

“We
can’t rely on any of the fancy 
nanomeds
,” Reed said.

“Then
use the first-aid kits we brought from Earth, medicine the old-fashioned way. 
Lieutenant Ray,
 go with her. Uh,” she looked from one
crewmember to another. She pointed to the woman at the main weapons console. “Chen,
you stay here. Everyone else, we need to check the ship bow to stern, see if
anything is still working. Anyone you find along the way, tell them to assist
if they can. If not, get them to sickbay.” She didn’t need to give instructions
about what to do if they found a dead body. “I’m going to the docking bays,
hopefully the dropships are still functional.”

“I
doubt it,” Reed grimaced as Ray helped her out of the chair. “Their systems are
linked to the ship’s network when they are aboard.”

“Fireball,”
Simms used the callsign that Reed hated. “I am officially designating you as
the ship’s morale officer. From here on out, you can’t say anything negative.”

“Yes,”
Reed grunted. “I promise to be a ray of freakin’ 
sunshine
.”

“That’s
the spirit. Everyone, move out.”

Ray
snapped his flashlight on and off, testing it. “Ma’am, how do we report back if
we find a system that is active?” He waved his dead zPhone. “We don’t have
comms.”

“Shit,”
Simms groaned. “Um, come back here and tell Chen. Wait, we have walkie-talkies?
Human gear we brought from Earth?”

“Yes,
but those tactical radios are digital also,” Ray said. “That’s how they handle
encryption.”

“How
long until we run out of oxygen?” Chen asked.

“This
is a 
big
 ship,” Reed was taking her role as moral officer seriously. “There
is plenty of oxygen. And we don’t have to worry about the ship getting cold for
a long time, vacuum is a great insulator.”

“That’s
not what I’m worried about,” Simms paused in the doorway, shining her
flashlight on the heavy-repair bot that was frozen in place ten meters away,
blocking the way aft. The bot was too large for the passageway, it had dented
the ceiling and the bulkheads on both sides during its determined struggle to
get to the bridge. To get anywhere, the crew would have to first go forward,
then around. 
 
“This ship is dead for now,
that means we can’t assist the 
Dutchman
, or Bishop. We are not going
anywhere.”

“The

Dutchman
 knows where we are,” Reed said hopefully. “Maybe,” she took a
breath. “Maybe they can help 
us
.”

“Reed,
you heard that AI. It was probably already too late for the 
Dutchman
 while
it was talking with me.”

“You
asked me to be a ray of sunshine, Ma’am.”

“Keep
doing that. Everyone, you know what to do.”

Reed
paused in the doorway, closing her eyes against a wave of pain. Now that they
were no longer threatened by killer robots, her broken arm was throbbing with
waves of pain. “Colonel?” She spoke partly to distract herself. “When you
surrendered that pistol, I thought you were giving up. How did you know 
that AI-”

“I
didn’t 
know
. I took a shot,” Simms admitted with a shudder, a delayed
reaction. “The only one we had.”

“Ma’am,”
Reed managed to express her admiration though teeth gritted against another
wave of pain. “That was a 
gutsy
 call.”

“Not
really. We had nothing to lose.”

“If
you say so. Remind me never to play poker against you.”

 

 

“Adams!”
Chang shouted as he sprinted through the door of the ship’s bridge, yelping
with dismay when the artificial gravity fluctuated and suddenly dropped to
nothing. His momentum carried him up to bash his head where the bulkhead met
the ceiling, and he was stunned from the unexpected impact. Collecting his wits
and shaking his head to clear the spots in his vision, he grasped a handrail. “Adams!
Shut down the reactors! Eject them if you have to!”

“I’m
trying!” She replied, fingers working the nonresponsive controls. “It’s not
working. None of the controls are responding. We can’t-”

The
lights flickered off again, as did all the consoles on the bridge and in the
CIC. Emergency lights snapped on, gravity remained off, and displays began
scrolling. “I can’t,” Adams looked from one display to another. “That’s not a
boot-up routine. This is gibberish. Those are not any human or Thuranin symbols
I know of.”

Without
access to the ship’s network, there was no way to determine the status of the
reactors. “Launch the dropships, get them away from here,” Chang ordered. He
had to save as many people as he could.

The
communications console was still displaying a chaotic, ever-changing scroll of meaningless
symbols and static, so Adams pulled out her zPhone. It was on, that was the
good news. The only good news. The phone had no connection to the ship’s
network, or anything else, and it was also displaying gibberish. She pressed 
buttons
 anyway, hoping for a miracle. “It’s not working,
Sir.”

Chang
pulled his own phone from a pocket, and saw the same incomprehensible symbols.
“
Everyone,
 get to the docking bays. Any ships that are
full, tell them to launch immediately,” in the back of his mind, he was trying
to imagine how long it took a reactor to build up to overload. He had no idea.
Before the bridge displays blinked out, the alert symbol had been flashing a
‘Critical’ warning about the reactors, and the red status bar had been
two-thirds of the way to the top. He didn’t know what that meant and there was
no one to provide the information. “Adams, you’re with me.”

She
pushed off her console, expertly flipped around to hug the opposite wall.
“Where are we going, Colonel?”

“To
round up everyone left on the ship. You take the portside passageway and I’ll
take starboard. Tell anyone you see to board a dropship and get as far away as
possible.”

 

Margaret
Adams ran in the zero gravity when she could, and flew down the passageways
when that mode of travel was faster. Often, the best way to move was to touch
the deck with just the toes of her boots, letting the magnets there begin to
get a grip then pushing off forcefully to soar through the air in the zero
gravity. She stopped to pound on closed doors, listening for sounds within, though
she knew very few people would have been in their cabins when the Dutchman went
into action. Passing the open door of the galley where the few people gathered 
there
 shouted questions to her, she cut them off with a
knife-hand. “
Everyone,
 beat feet to a dropship, alert
anyone you see along the way! 
Move
!”

Racing
past the docking bays where people were streaming through the open airlocks,
she kept going until she encountered eight people coming forward. “Reactors are
overloading,” she explained. “We’re abandoning ship.”

“Get
yourself to a dropship, Gunny,” a lieutenant told her. “There isn’t anyone aft
of us in the ship.”

 

When
she randomly chose a docking bay on the portside of the ship, she saw a pilot
waving to her from the side doorway of a Falcon. The engines were already spun
up and the Dragon parked beside it had its engines idling also, the difference was
that she could see scorch marks on the leading edges of the Dragon. That
spacecraft had to be one of the dropships that had just returned from the
mission to Rikers, and was likely overloaded with soldiers and rescued
civilians. Acknowledging the pilot’s wave with a nod, she pushed off the
airlock casing and aimed for the Falcon, flipping around in midair to land
feet-first next to the open door. The pilot reached out a hand to pull her in.
“Seal up behind you, Adams,” the man said as he ducked through the inner
doorway. “We are 
outta
 here.”

Backing
through the airlock, she slapped the emergency controls and saw both doors slam
shut, verifying the red lights were on. To be sure the doors would not blow
open in flight, she braced herself and manually dogged the inner door into lock
position. There was a metallic sound as the Falcon released from the docking
clamps that held it to the floor, and the craft was moving when she pulled
herself into the seat opposite the airlock, glancing up while tugging the
straps tight around her. About half the seats were occupied by a random
collection of Pirates, what surprised her was that the first two rows behind
the cockpit were filled with raggedly-dressed, disheveled people she did not
know. Including children.

And
Gunnery Sergeant Lamar Greene.

He
was as surprised to see her as she was. “Margaret, what is going-”

Then
the Falcon’s engines kicked on, swinging the craft around to line up with the
bay doors. The pilots must have then blown the big doors open in emergency mode,
because a high-pitched shriek sounded past the hull and the Falcon trembled as
it was sucked out along with the air. Before Margaret could reply, the main
engine kicked on 
hard
, and acceleration built until she had to focus on clenching
her stomach to prevent blood from draining from her head.

 

Colonel
Chang had not gotten the seat straps tightened around his waist when the Falcon
he boarded blasted free of the docking 
clamps,
 the
pilot having commanded the bay doors to slam open for emergency launch. The
Falcon rocked as it was carried along with the pressurized air blown from the
cavernous docking bay, tilting on its nose and coming close to scraping along
the floor before it was ejected out into space. From his seat in the cabin’s
first row, Chang could see through the open cockpit door. Instead of the
blackness of a starfield, there was a thin, glowing orange fog. “What is 
that
?”

“Sir,”
the pilot couldn’t hide his irritation at being asked questions while he was
trying to 
fly
. He got the spacecraft straightened out and kicked in the
engines on half thrust, toggling a button to kick in the Falcon’s boosters. Four
and a half gravities of acceleration ended any stupid questions from the
passenger cabin.

The
boosters cut out after a hundred eighteen seconds, dropping the force on the
passengers’ chests to a mere two point eight Gees. Chang waited for what he
judged was a reasonable length of time, tried to give an order and found there
wasn’t enough air in his lungs. He settled for taking deep, even breaths. “Dis-,”
he sucked in another lungful of air. “Distance?”

“Seven
hundred forty-six kilometers,” the pilot answered without turning his head,
which could have over-strained his neck muscles. “Velocity ten point two
kilometers per second.”

“Cut,”
another deep breath. “Cut thrust.”

The
weight lifted off his chest, replaced by a wave of nausea from the sudden lack
of gravity. He gulped air again, this time to soothe his rebellious stomach.

They
were far enough away that if the 
Dutchman’s
 reactors exploded, the
Falcon could survive.

IF
.

Chang
unstrapped from the seat, floated into the cockpit and into the copilot seat,
careful not to touch any of the controls. “Show me the ship,” he got the
unfamiliar straps fastened, in case the Falcon needed to accelerate again.

The
display in front of him changed from a view of empty space ahead, to a
magnified image of the ship behind. The 
Flying Dutchman
 was barely
visible, the ship’s gray armor-plated hull not reflecting much of the dim
starlight. Details did not matter, what mattered was the ship was in one piece.

The
reactors had 
not
 exploded.

Why?

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWO

 

When
the Falcon abruptly cut acceleration, Margaret Adams knew to fill her own lungs
with oxygen and wait for the spots to fade from her vision before she attempted
to assist anyone. By the time the pilots gave the All Clear for passengers to
release from their seats, she was last to reach the front row of the cabin,
where the people rescued from Rikers were not doing well. There were seven of
them, four children and three adults; the children were frightened and crying
while two of the adults were frightened and angry. The third adult, a Chinese
man who Adams guessed was in his thirties, was slumped in his chair, tiny
bubbles of blood popping out from his nose.

“Margaret,”
Greene said quietly as he held a crying girl and swiped the air with a cloth
under the unconscious man’s nose, trying to catch the blood droplets before they
floated free around the cabin. The two adults were demanding answers, they
closed their mouths when Greene glared at them and held up a hand for quiet.
“What is going on? We docked with the 
Dutchman
 and I felt the ship jump.
Then-”

“The
ship was attacked,” Adams took the cloth and held it under the stricken man’s
nose, rolling back one of his eyelids to check for a response. The eye was 
bloodshot
 but the pupil shrank when exposed to light. A
finger on the man’s neck confirmed his pulse rate was slow but steady. “The reactors
were in danger of 
overload,
 we flew out here to be
safe.”

Greene’s
eye bulged. “If the ship explodes, what about us?”

Adams
looked to the cockpit door. “The pilots would not have cut thrust until we
reached a safe distance.”

“That’s
not what-” He bit his lip. “The 
Dutchman
 jumped away, right? We can’t
fly back to the planet in a dropship, not from here.”

“We
did jump, just after the last dropship was recovered. 
Valkyrie
 will come
for us,” she suggested, a frown creeping over her expression. In the CIC, she
had seen that the ship’s outbound jump had thrown them a quarter lightyear off
target. The battlecruiser might need to wait three months for gamma rays to
show where the 
Dutchman
 had gone to.

Three
months.

They
could not survive in dropships that long. Even if the oxygen recyclers
continued to operate at peak efficiency, there was only enough food in the
emergency lockers to feed twelve people for eight days. There had not been time
to bring any more food aboard. The man she was caring for groaned, his eyelids
fluttering. All the people they had rescued needed medical treatment, that was just
not available aboard a dropship.

Lamar
reached out a hand, and Margaret took it, squeezing for reassurance that they
all be Ok. His eyes told her that he knew the truth.

None
of them would be Ok.

 

 

Who
I?

Who
is me?

Is
me?

Is
I?

My
brain wasn’t working, whoever me is.

Whoever
I was, the place was familiar.

Ooh!
I know.

I
was aboard a ship called the 
Flying Dutchman
. The interior was distinctive,
because it was built by the Thuranin.

Whoever
the Thuranin are or were, I can’t remember.

What
kind of ship?

A
sailing 
ship?

That’s
not right.

Am
I on a ride? Am I at Disney World?

Who
is 
th
-

Yuck.

No.
Oh, no.

I
am on a Thuranin ship, but not the 
Flying Dutchman
, whatever that is.

Little
green people were staring at me from behind a window.

Words
boomed in my ears, hurting me.

“You
will answer our questions, human,” one of the little green guys said.

“Yes,”
I heard myself say, whoever I was. “I will answer.”

 

 

Chang
brought the dropships together in a loose formation, eighteen hundred
kilometers from the 
Flying Dutchman
. The ship showed no signs of an imminent
explosion. It was showing no signs of activity at all. Minimal backup power was
still operating inside the hull, that was evident from lights blinking inside
the open docking bays. The ship was not moving, not even to halt the slow
tumble caused by emergency venting of air from multiple docking bays. As a precaution,
all the dropships had their noses pointed away from the 
Dutchman
, ready
for maximum acceleration in case the ship suddenly exploded. 

An
explosion was not the only danger. At that point, with the drifting starship surrounded
by a cloud of cooling plasma vented from the reactors, an explosion did not
appear to be likely, or at least not something that was inevitable.

What
concerned Chang was something more sinister than a reactor overload. Something
had attacked and disabled Nagatha. Something that had infected the ship’s
computers. If a hostile entity took over the 
Flying Dutchman
, that ship
could become a weapon against its own crew, hunting down the dropships one by
one.

If
that happened, Chang planned to do the only thing he could 
do:

order the little fleet of dropships to scatter. Get as far apart as possible,
run, and pray for a miracle. Some kind of miracle that would disable the killer
starship before it destroyed its own crew.

Praying
for a miracle was not actually a 
plan
.

The
situation aboard the cramped dropships was growing worse by the hour. Many of the
people rescued from Rikers needed medical care that was only available aboard either
the 
Dutchman
 or 
Valkyrie
, and neither of those ships appeared to
be an option. Because his ship had jumped a quarter of a lightyear off course,
the people aboard 
Valkyrie
 would not see the gamma ray burst of the 
Dutchman’
s
inbound jump for three months. And unless Simms broke protocol and took her
battlecruiser in toward Rikers to investigate soon, before the resonance of the

Dutchman
’s outbound jump field faded, the other ship would have no way
to know where Chang and his people had gone.

Even
if they could go back aboard the 
Dutchman
, emergency power would not
last three months.

Could
they go back aboard the ship? Chang called another Falcon, where the team’s
chief science advisor was jammed in with too many people.

“Colonel,
I have no idea,” Doctor Friedlander explained. “Really, I don’t. We don’t have
any data to work with.”

Chang
pinched the bridge of his nose, reminding himself that Friedlander was an
engineer. A scientist. A 
rocket
 scientist. Not the kind of person who
liked to make wild guesses. “We know the reactors did 
not
 overload.”

“Yes,”
the good doctor agreed. “Did you see that orange fog we flew through when we
launched? That was reactor plasma, I assume the venting was an automatic
response by the reactor control systems.”

“Before
the bridge instruments stopped functioning, the reactors were building up to an
overload. Something directed them to overload.”

“Yes,”
Friedlander spoke slowly so a non-engineer could understand. “Each reactor has
its own control system, independent of the ship’s primary computer.”

“Independent,
yes.” Chang knew the operational characteristics of his ship. “Then why were
all three reactors being directed to overload?”

“You’re
asking me to make a guess. 
Nagatha
 could overload a reactor.”

“You
think Nagatha-”

“She
said something was attacking her. Whatever that was, it might have also
instructed the reactors to overload. Although-”

“What?”

“Any
technology with the ability to kill Nagatha, should have easily bypassed the
reactor safeties. And the jump drive capacitor containment system also. It
doesn’t make sense that-”

“Doctor,
you think something 
killed
 Nagatha?”

“She
stopped responding, the ship was operating on emergency power, and she hasn’t
come back online. You saw that code scrolling on our phones and every console
aboard the ship. That was something 
alien
 in the substrate. That’s my
guess. Something infected the ship’s 
systems,
 we are
lucky it didn’t transfer to the dropships. The more I think about it, the whole
situation doesn’t make sense. Assuming the computers were infected with a
hostile virus that was programmed to destroy the ship, it had many options. It
should have been able to overload the reactors, even if that failed, it could
have detonated missile warheads, or jumped the ship into a star. Hmm,” he
pondered his own question. “Unless, something went wrong. The hostile code
killed Nagatha, but it got stalled before it could destroy the ship.”

“Doctor,
speculation is an interesting exercise but as you said, we need 
information
.
Do you have a recommendation for me?”

Friedlander
didn’t answer right away. Either because he was thinking about the question, or
because there wasn’t any thinking required. “Colonel Chang, we can’t stay out
here forever. Someone needs to go back aboard the ship.”

“I
agree. We need a reconnaissance team, and potentially someone to disable the
ship’s computer.”

There
was a pause, then “Why would we do that? If we are to have any hope of
restoring-”

“Doctor,
an unknown but certainly hostile element has infiltrated the ship. If it gains
control of the computer, it-”

“Ah,
Ok. Yes, I see what you mean. There are, some,” he spoke slowly while he
thought. “Measures we could take. To isolate the computer core from critical
systems like weapons control. That would require disconnecting-”

“Are
you volunteering, Doctor?”

“
Me
?”

“If
we are not going to drift in space forever, someone needs to determine the
status of the ship.”

“Hey,
wait, I didn’t say I could-” 

“Excellent.
We appreciate your utmost efforts.”

 

 

Samantha
‘Fireball’ Reed strode carefully into the cargo bay, making sure her boots
securely 
clicked
 into place with each step. The boots held her to the
deck, or a bulkhead or the ceiling, in the zero gravity. What the boots failed
to do was anything about her hair. Usually, she kept it in a ponytail, which
was no good in zero-gee. The tail flew apart in a static-induced fan around her
head, tickling her ears annoyingly. Tucking it in a bun worked fine, except
wearing a bun hurt after a while. And it was damned difficult to get her thick
hair fastened into a bun while one of her arms was in a sling. She had
considered chopping it short for the duration, but that would be a signal to
the crew that she didn’t expect their situation to improve anytime soon, and
that would be a bad move for the ship’s Morale Officer. Her compromise was to
wear a blue baseball cap with “UNS Valkyrie CC-01” inscribed in gold. Skippy
had fabricated caps for the crew, though since no one ever went outside the
ship without a suit, the caps were not worn often. When the bill of the cap got
in her way, she swung it around backward which was definitely against
regulations, and that made doing it a bit sweeter. The only thing that could have
made her minor rebellion better would be getting a disapproving glare from a
Command Sergeant Major, but none of them were aboard 
Valkyrie
.

Not
that there was anything sweet about their situation. The only bit of good news
was that no one had been killed by the ship’s murderous former AI. Apparently,
it had focused its attention on the bridge crew, and ignored the other people
aboard, except for locking doors throughout the ship so the crew could not move
around and cause mischief. The Jeraptha cadet and Ruhar officer had been
confined to their cabins during the incident and were unharmed, other than
being confused and terrified. It was bad enough those aliens had been
essentially kidnapped when the Pirates had Shanghaied the Commandos from
Paradise, now the aliens were trapped aboard a slowly dying starship.

Actually,
there was a second bit of good news, news that was really more of a mixed
blessing. The ship’s computer had not rebooted. No AI was online, doing its
best to kill the crew. 
But,
 the ship was still
entirely without power. Despite what she said about 
Valkyrie
 being a big
ship, most of the structure was blocked off from biological beings without
spacesuits. The pressure hull that held breathable air was only part of the
forward section. Yes, the interior volume of the pressure hull was large and
held plenty of sweet oxygen when the power cut off completely. Carbon dioxide
was building up slowly, there was no way to tell the percentage of CO2 in the
air without instruments. Or maybe there was a way to determine the levels of
carbon dioxide and free oxygen, through some kind of chemical experiment, but
none of the crew had a background in chemistry. It didn’t matter anyway, there
wasn’t much they could do about it. Escape pods, powered armor suits, dropships
and 
Valkyrie
 all had small canisters of pure oxygen for emergency use,
that could be accessed by manually cranking open a valve. The total amount of
oxygen available from all sources was disappointingly small, a problem
ironically caused by the advanced technology involved. There was no need to store
large amounts of dangerous oxygen, because the recycling systems were so
efficient.

The
recyclers were amazingly efficient when they were functioning, which they were 
not
.
Nothing else aboard the ship was functioning either, with the exception of simple
flashlights, and larger portable lights that had been cobbled together. And
some of the tactical radios, through the efforts of the crew. Several radios
had been taken apart and rewired, bypassing anything that required software.
The expensive, fancy multichannel encrypted radios that were state-of-the-art
for military units on Earth, had been turned into something not worthy of a
high school science demonstration. They used only one channel, but they 
worked
,
allowing communication without people running back and forth. The range of the
walkie-talkies was short inside the ship, requiring a person to act as a
message relay. At first, the relay was set up to enable communication with the
bridge, then Simms decided there was no point in keeping someone on the bridge
at all times. The ship had no power and wasn’t 
going
 anywhere.

Reed
froze when she entered the cargo bay. Simms was bent over a long cylinder, from
which the upper half had been removed. “Colonel?” She asked with a catch in her
throat. “What are you doing?”

“Making
sure we have a fallback plan,” Simms mumbled, a screwdriver held between her
teeth. “Come over here and help me.”

“What
kind of fallback?” Sami walked slowly, not wanting to get there quickly.

Simms
had unfastened the cover of a tactical nuclear warhead, and was working on the
guts of the hellish device.

“In
case we need it.” She took the screwdriver out of her mouth and tucked it in a
pocket. “Don’t worry, Reed, I haven’t gone crazy. I’m not planning to use
this,” she patted the warhead’s casing, “any time soon.”

“But
you 
do
 plan to use it?” Sami was close enough to see a tangle of wiring,
and an empty space where something was missing.

“Not
unless we have to,” Simms bent down over the casing with a pair of snips,
cutting through a wire. “Reed, we can’t allow any hostile force to take this
ship.”

“You
mean, when the oxygen runs out, we blow the nuke?”

“We
will be poisoned by excess carbon dioxide before we run out of oxygen. CO2
poisoning causes dizziness, confusion, loss of judgment. We will have to make
the decision to detonate 
before
 we get to that point.”

Simms
was not telling Sami anything she didn’t already know. “That could take a
while, Ma’am. There aren’t many of us breathing the air, and it is a big ship.
We will notice headaches and shortness of breath first.”

“You
may be right, but that isn’t what I’m worried about. The enemy could arrive well
before CO2 levels build up to a dangerous level.”

Sami
stared down into the cavity, where Simms had clearly removed something, and cut
away wires. “Why would the enemy-”

“There
was a gamma ray burst when we jumped into this location. Most of the rays were
directed away from the star system, but the burst was still detectable. We
don’t know what happened to Bishop, but it can’t be anything good. The 
Dutchman

is gone, we have to assume that whatever bad guys are in the area, they will be
looking for another ship. That means they could be hunting for 
us
,
whether they suspect who we are or not.”

“Got
it. We blow the nuke if we detect a hostile ship approaching. Um, one question,
Ma’am. None of the sensors are operational. How will we know if another ship
jumps in?”

Simms
pointed to her right eye. “We use the trusty old Mark One eyeball. I will station
crewmembers at the viewports port and starboard, near the docking bays.” The
ship had clear viewports in those sections, for emergency use. “If anyone sees
something moving out there, they call it in.”

“Then
we detonate the nuke?” Sami asked, her head tilted skeptically at the
disassembled device. “
Can
 we do that? The control boxes on these things
have software, they must be dead?”

“They
are. I removed the PAL unit,” she referenced the Permissible Action Link that
prevented unauthorized use of the device.

“Uh,
is that a good idea? Do you, excuse me for asking, but do you know what you’re
doing here?”

“Relax,
Captain. The Air Force trained me, Bishop, Chang, Smythe and a few others, how
to bypass the PAL and rig it for manual detonation. At the time, they were
concerned that 
Skippy
 might try to disable the nukes. I’m almost done, I
need an extra hand to-”

“Ma’am,”
Reed swallowed hard. With one of her arms broken, she only had one hand to work
with. “Tell me what to do, and I’ll do it. Very carefully.”

 

 

“Reserve
power is down to twenty-three percent,” Friedlander reported, knowing that
everyone in the 
Dutchman’s
 conference room already had that discouraging
information.

Chang
nodded, looking from one face to another, in the dim lighting of the
compartment that had long been designated as the ship’s conference room. The
lack of artificial gravity added an amusing aspect to the gathering; depending
on how tightly people tugged the straps across their waists, they were tugged
down into or floating above their seats. Adams appeared taller than Smythe
seated next to her, Chang did not comment when the STAR team leader subtly
loosened the strap to drift upward slightly. “We started at thirty-five
percent,” he noted. The first team back aboard the 
Dutchman
 reported that
something had depleted the majority of reserve power, though no major systems
were active. “At that rate of consumption-”

“Our
power consumption is not linear,” Friedlander said. “We drew a lot of power
when we came aboard.” To get people out of the dropships, it had been necessary
to close the docking bay doors and fill the bays with air from the ship’s
reserves. All those operations had been performed manually, controlled by local
systems, and they all pulled energy from the ship’s backup power storage banks.
“Our attempt to get the oxygen recyclers functioning drained six percent of the
reserves.”

“We
won’t try that again,” Smythe said under his breath. He had been against the
plan to restart the recycling. 

“We

have
 to try that again,” Major Kapoor retorted gently from across the
table. “Carbon dioxide levels will become toxic if we can’t scrub CO2 from the
air. There are too many people aboard the ship.”

“The
first attempt failed,” Smythe reminded everyone, looking directly at
Friedlander. “It would be madness to try it again, unless we have a better idea
for-”

“Colonel
Smythe,” Chang waved a hand for calm, before the discussion became heated. “We
all know that we can’t continue to live aboard the 
Dutchman
, and the
dropships do not have the capacity to sustain everyone for more than another
month.”

“Smythe
is right, though,” Friedlander knew everyone was looking to 
him
 to fix
the problem. It was unfair, and it was inevitable. “The recyclers simply will
not function without the local controller. Until we know how to get the malware
code stripped out of the processors, no computer aboard this ship will operate
properly.”

“Won’t
operate 
at all
,” Smythe waved his zPhone, which was still displaying
gibberish. Like everyone else, he had tried turning it off and back on, with no
result. The phone would not shut down, no matter what shortcuts they tried. One
phone had been taken apart and the battery removed, then reconnected. That
phone refused to start up, showing only a half-lit display of random static.
Three more phones were taken apart, with the same useless result. Simply
rebooting systems was not going to correct the malfunction.

Chang
turned his attention back to the team’s rocket scientist. “Doctor Friedlander?”

“My
specialty is 
mechanical
 engineering,” he reminded the room.

“If
we had a cyber expert,” Chang said, “I would ask-”

“I
don’t know if that would help,” Friedlander shook his head. “This ship is run
by an AI, that was built by an 
Elder
 AI. No human is capable of
understanding the system. I asked our guests,” he referred to the Ruhar officer
and the Jeraptha cadet they had kidnapped when they brought the Commando team
aboard. “If they could help. They 
want
 to help, of course. They are
stuck in this mess with us. Neither of them had any suggestions to help us.
Except,” he glanced at Chang then looked away. “They both agree that attempting
to restart a reactor would be insane.”

Chang
repressed a sigh. He had wanted to try getting a reactor started as their first
action, instead of wasting time and power reserves in the attempt to make the
oxygen recyclers functional. The reactors were the key. If they had even one
reactor working, they could remove power supply from the list of problems. At
that point, what he wanted didn’t matter. No computer-controlled system aboard
the ship was operating properly, not operating at all. “You still believe we
should try connecting a dropship AI to the ship?”

“We
need to isolate it first,” Friedlander answered. “Yes,” he held up his hands.
“Nothing else we’ve tried has produced 
any
 results. We need to know what
is going on inside the ship’s brain. As we discussed, we will start by
connecting a Falcon AI to a simple system, such as the environmental controls
of a docking bay. If the Falcon can give us insight into what is wrong, we can
at least begin to understand our options.”

Chang
looked around the table again. “Does anyone have an objection?”

Kapoor
spoke. “There is a risk that the Falcon’s AI could become infected?”

“There
is that risk,” Friedlander admitted. “I wish we could balance that risk by
saying a dropship AI could control some of the ship’s systems, but they are not
compatible. Even the AI of a Thuranin Falcon can’t talk to the ship’s
computers, they have been modified so radically since the Dutchman was captured.”

“Any
other comments? No?” Chang released his seat strap. “Doctor, please proceed.
You will have whatever resources we have available.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THREE

 

I
did not exactly wake up, it was more like I stopped 
not
 being awake, if
that makes any sense. The difference was that, instead of vaguely being aware
of events occurring, I was aware those events were occurring to me. Aware that
there was a me. And that I was me.

Give
me a break, my brain wasn’t functioning properly.

It
was a gradual thing, coming back to awareness that I existed. Sort of, fading
in and out, trying to make sense of what was going on. 

Gradually,
I pieced together a picture of who I was, then where I was. 
How
 I had
gotten there, I had no idea.

It
was a room, big, maybe thirty feet wide in front of my field of view. How far
the back wall was behind me, whether there was a wall back there, I couldn’t
say. The wall in front of me was-

Wait.
How did I know the wall in front of me was thirty feet wide? Oh, yeah. I
imagined how many of me could lie down on the floor, head to toe. My estimate
was five of me, and I’m a bit over six feet tall, so, five times six.

That’s
thirty, right?

Like
I said, brain not functioning optimally.

That
wall was anywhere from thirty to fifty feet away. My estimate was off, because
I could not see the floor. I was lying at an angle, maybe forty-five degrees.
My head couldn’t move, or maybe I just couldn’t remember how to move my head.

It
seems like I spent a lot of time trying to remember how to move. It had something
to do with deciding that I 
wanted
 to move, then which body part to move,
and which way. Then my brain would send a signal, using electricity, I think. Squishy,
flexible things called muscles then moved as a response to the electrical
prompt from my brain. Why? I think it’s because the muscles are afraid of
getting zapped by electricity, so they hope if they do what the brain wants,
the brain will stop zapping them.

That
concludes my super-accurate lesson in human anatomy. Collect your diplomas on
the way out the door, please.

Oh,

duh
.

I
should explain 
who
 I am.

It
took me a while to figure that out.

It
was nice, being able to remember who I am.

It
was 
terribly
 disappointing that I am not way cooler than I actually am.

For
a while, as I was gradually piecing together that I existed, I had a vague fantasy
that I was Thor, the God of Thunder. I had a mythical, unstoppable hammer. I
was awesome.

I
was also lucky with the ladies, if you know what I mean.

Also,
I had much better hair.

When
I came to terms with the fact that I am just 
me
, it made me nostalgic
for the time when I was not aware of my existence.

Anyway,
I am Joe Bishop. Colonel in the United States Army, although I didn’t earn
that. The colonel part, I mean. I sure did earn the right to wear the US ARMY
patch on my uniform, there were a lot of days of getting up at Oh Dark Stupid involved.
Also eating a lot of Army food, which I guess is not as bad as I remember. Marines
complain about the chow in their dining halls and from what I’ve heard, they have
a point. Anyway, what do I know about the Marines? I’m an Army grunt.

What
was I talking about?

Oh,
yeah.

I
am Joe Bishop.

Luckiest
E-5 in the Army. Um, E-5 is the code for a sergeant, which was my legit rank
before I got a bump to colonel as a publicity stunt, to please a bunch of
murderous alien mother-

Let’s
not get into that.

Anyway-

I
seem to be saying ‘anyway’ a lot. Am I? I can’t remember.

So,
that’s who I am. Joe Bishop. I used to command a 
starship
. Pretty cool,
huh? By the way, ladies, technically I commanded a formation of 
two

starships, so that makes me a Commodore.

No,
not the kind of Commodore who sang that old ‘Brick House’ song.

Still
not 
impressed?

Yeah,
you shouldn’t be.

I’m
an idiot.

Let’s
not get into that either. It’s too depressing to rehash all the mistakes I’ve
made.

Next
topic: 
where
 I am.

It
appeared to be a hospital, or something like that. It was clean and
sterile-looking, painted a dull gray intended to make sick patients think that
if they did die soon, at least they wouldn’t need to look at those walls again.
There were bright lights, not all over, most of them seemed to be pointed at
me.

My
eyes could move, that was something.

Hey!
I have 
eyelids
. They open and close.

How
cool is that?

The
rest of my body did not have the handy ‘Movement’ feature, I must not have paid
for that option when I bought the damned thing. Probably I was too cheap to pay
for rustproofing or floormats either.

My
head could not move. My tongue felt like it could move, although there was
something obstructing my mouth. Hmm, it felt like a mouthguard you wear when
playing football, except thicker. The rest of me was not moving.

There

was
 a rest of me, I knew from seeing my toes.

Two
thoughts occurred to me right then.

Toes
are funny-looking things.

And
apparently, I was naked.

Ladies,
please, try not to get too excited.

Sadly,
I am unavailable. As in 
not available
.

If
I had to guess, the hospital or whatever was thousands of lightyears from
Earth, which makes it awkward for me to pop over to your place for a booty
call, or Netflix and chill, or whatever people on Earth are using as a polite
way of saying we should do the Wild Thing.

 

Hey,
if I want to fantasize that some woman out there would booty-call me, that’s my
business. Throw me a bone, will you?

Also,
if my slang is out of date, please understand that I haven’t spent a whole lot
of time on Earth recently.

So,
to recap.

I
am Joe Bishop, Doofus El Supremo.

I
am in an alien hospital, somewhere-

Alien?
How do I know that? From the alien script on the wall. Hey! I recognize those
characters. That is Kristang writing. It’s too far away for me to read, but
there are big characters that read the equivalent of G-3. Whatever type of room
‘G’ is, I must be in the third one.

Ooh!
Something else I know! The hospital is on a planet. How do I know that? Easy. Gravity
was making my back press into the bed or whatever I was lying on. Kristang
ships don’t have artificial gravity. Therefore, the Kristang hospital must be
on a Kristang planet.

Yes,
Mister 
Smartypants
, it is possible that a Kristang
ship could mimic the effect of gravity by constantly accelerating, but that is
unlikely. Starships don’t waste fuel in constant acceleration, if they want to travel
a significant distance, they jump.

That
is two questions answered: who and where.

Damn,
I am on fire!

How
 did I get there? I have 
no

idea. My last memory was a happy one. Something about spaceships flying away
from a planet, an important and hazardous mission completed successfully. That
was an accomplishment I was happy about, although I have none of the details.

Why
 was I there? That had me stumped. No,
it had me stumped until I thought about it. The Kristang had captured me, that
was obvious. I was enormously proud of myself for figuring out that mystery.

The
last question was 
when
? Again, I didn’t know. There wasn’t a clock on
the wall that I could see.

My
memory was not great. Also, my emotions were running out of control. One moment
I was euphoric, ready to jump up and take on the world. The next moment, I was
horribly depressed, wanting to sit on a couch wearing old sweatpants and eating
big 
spoonful’s
 of Fluff right out of the jar while
wallowing in misery.

Fluff.
Damn, I was hungry.

That
was it for a while. Me drifting in and out of awareness, giggling every time I
looked at my toes. From the awkward angle of my head, I could not see my, you
know, junk, although I can assure you ladies 
that
 is nothing to giggle
about. Mostly, I spent the time wondering how I got there.

Wondering
how I got to be such an idiot.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER FOUR

 

Margaret
Adams waited for the inner airlock door to show fully closed before she manually
cranked open the outer door that led to the docking bay. Lighting was dim,
mostly from the cabins of the two dropships parked there, with one Falcon’s nose
gear light on, throwing everything in the bay into harsh shadows.

“Hey,”
Lamar Greene nodded to her quietly from his position beside the door.

“Hi,”
Margaret returned the gesture, looking from left to right, cots had been set up
around the dropships, their legs fastened to the floor. Half of the cots were
occupied, people lying asleep in sleeping bags, with a loose strap across their
waists keeping them from floating free in the zero gravity. With the ship’s
oxygen and water recycling equipment still stubbornly offline, the only fresh
air aboard the ship was provided by the dropships, sitting in their docking cradles
with their rear ramps and side doors open. Two dropships did not have
sufficient recycling capacity to filter all the air in a cavernous docking bay,
and after three full days, the carbon dioxide levels in the bays were inching
toward the danger level. That was better than the rest of the ship, where the
air was already noticeably foul-tasting. Literally, the air 
tasted
 bad
in her mouth. “I came to see- What are you drinking?”

He
lifted a flexible plastic tube, a thumb held over the cap. Half the tube was
filled with a thick brownish liquid. “This?” He put the tube to his mouth and
squeezed the end, sucking the fluid into his mouth. “You Pirates call it a
‘sludge’?”

“I
know what it’s called,” she expressed surprise. “Where did 
you
 get it?
Damn, I thought Simms purged the ship of that crap several missions ago.”

“One
of the STARs, a Captain Frey, gave me a dozen. All they have left is this,” he
licked his lips and made a sour face. “Chocolate-banana flavor. It doesn’t
taste like-”

“Either
chocolate or banana, I know. It tastes like chalk and plastic.”

“Everything
a growing boy needs,” he grinned, and lifted the flap of a pocket to show
another five tubes of sludge. “The Marine Corps promised me three squares a
day, and I’ve got mine right here.”

“The
galley is baking fresh, hot biscuits for lunch,” she protested. “Why are you
eating 
sludge
?”

“These
people,” Greene gestured to the rescued civilians, sleeping on their cots or
huddled together in donated clothing. “Need all the real nutrition they can get,
I’m not taking any food out of their mouths,” he pressed his lips together. “I’ll
drink sludge for breakfast, lunch and dinner until we give these people what we
promised.”

“Lamar,”
she was feeling guilty that she had eaten two biscuits while working in the
galley. “We have plenty of real food. We will run out of,” as the words came
out of her 
mouth
 she understood what she was saying. “Oxygen,”
she finished. “Long before we all have to eat sludges.”

“Maybe
so, that don’t change a thing. Those people see me drinking this shit, they
know I’m making a sacrifice for them. I’m trying to 
do
 something, for
them.”

She
reached out to touch his cheek. “You’re a good man.”

“I’m
a 
Marine
,” he insisted. “I signed up to protect people like them. Shit,”
he shook his head with disgust. “They were safer down on that planet than they
are here.”

“The
crew is working on the ship,” she said woodenly. Everyone knew the attempted
restart of the oxygen recycling system had been a failure.

“It
has been 
four
 days,” his mouth worked like he was looking for a place to
spit. “These people are scared. And they’re 
pissed
, at us. They blame
us, and they’re right. I talk with them, and I don’t have any answers.”

“
Valkyrie

has to be searching for us,” she said.

“How
do you know 
Valkyrie
 isn’t in the same trouble as us?”

“I
don’t,” she admitted after a beat. “Not for certain, until they contact us. It’s
not-”

“That
rocket scientist doctor, Freedman, something like-”

“Fried
lander
.”

“Yeah.
I met him in the galley yesterday, he told me we jumped a 
quarter lightyear

off 
course?
 Margaret, cut the bullshit, huh? All these
people will be dead before 
Valkyrie
 even knows where we are. We promised
them we were there to help, to rescue them. 
I
,” he tapped his chest, “made
a promise to these people. We got them up here where they will die unless there
is a 
miracle
, because we don’t know what the fuck we’re doing.”

She
knew from his accusing stare that he wasn’t including himself or the other
Commandos, in that ‘we’. It hadn’t helped that when she first told him the ship
had been attacked, he had assumed a physical attack by another starship, and
she hadn’t corrected the assumption until much later. When he learned that the
‘attack’ was what he considered nothing more than a 
software
 issue, that
had not improved her credibility with him. Since then, she had told him
everything she knew, holding nothing back. “You’re forgetting about Bishop and
Skippy.”

“What
about them? They are a quarter lightyear away, in a dropship that couldn’t get
here in ten years. Margaret, listen, about Bishop, whatever’s between you two,
I don’t want to get in the-”

“There’s
nothing between us,” she stiffened. “He’s my CO. Yours too.”

“Nothing?”
He asked. That was not what other Pirates had told him in confidence. Perhaps
‘confidence’ was not the proper word, since the relationship between the gunnery
sergeant and the colonel was an open secret aboard both ships. “Ok, it’s not
any of my business. The point is, he isn’t 
here
, and he can’t 
get

here. We are on our own.”

“No,”
she shook her head again. “Don’t count out Skippy. Simms will know we didn’t
arrive at the rendezvous point. She will jump 
Valkyrie
 in to pick up
Bishop and Skippy. You asked for a miracle? Those two 
do
 miracles. I’ve
seen them get us out of impossible situations more times than I can count. They’ll
find us, soon. We just need to hang on.”

Greene
looked her in the eye, searching for doubt. “How do you know this same software
glitch didn’t hit 
Valkyrie
 also?”

“Not
possible. The operating systems are completely different.”

“Maybe
that’s true,” he said, in a way that meant he doubted she understood advanced
alien computers. “I hear that something went wrong with 
Skippy
. Bishop’s
dropship lost stealth, and the microwormholes shut down. If we’re counting on
the AI to rescue-”

“Sergeant
Greene?” A young boy called, walking across the docking bay’s deck in boots
that were far too big for him, and struggling to overcome the magnetic pads on
the soles.

“Sanjay,”
Green’s expression softened as he took three long strides to meet the boy.
“Have you met my friend?” He pointed to Margaret. “She is Gunnery Sergeant
Adams.”

The
skinny boy didn’t smile as he raised a hand to wave at her, standing half
behind Greene. “Hello, Sergeant Adams.”

“My
given name is 
Margaret
,” she took a step forward then froze as the boy
flinched. “I am very pleased to meet you, Sanjay.”

“Margaret
Adams is a friend of mine,” Greene gently tugged the boy to stand beside him. “We
know each other from Earth, a long time ago.”

Sanjay
stared down at the deck, unconvinced.

“Margaret
is an original member of this ship’s crew,” Greene added.

At
that, the boy looked up, straight at her. “Are we all going to be Ok?”

She
wanted to tell the boy, and Greene, and everyone, that they were going to be
fine. If they were on Earth, she might have lied, thinking she was offering
words of comfort. Not to this boy, not now. Sanjay had seen horrors. She knew
from the files intercepted by Skippy that Sanjay was nine years old, though he
appeared both younger and older. He was small for his age, malnutrition and
stress stunting his growth. In his eyes, she saw a weariness of someone far
older. “Sanjay, I don’t know. Really, I don’t. I’m not going to lie to you. The
situation is serious. I’m sorry we brought you out here, we didn’t think-”

“I’m
not sorry,” the boy said.

“You’re
not?” Adams shared a questioning look with Greene.

“Here,
I’m with my people,” the boy waved a hand at those clustered around the
dropships, at Greene. And at Margaret Adams.

She
felt her eyes well with tears.

 

 

Finally,
something changed. When I say ‘finally’, I have no idea how long it took to get
to finally, it seemed like forever.

When
‘finally’ happened, it made me nostalgic for the good old days when I wasn’t
aware that I existed.

A
Thuranin, another Thuranin, a Kristang and a combot walked into the room.

There’s
a good joke in there somewhere, I’ll have to think about it.

Two
Thuranin.

Whoa.

In
my mind I said ‘
Whoa
’ like Keanu Reeves, and that made me feel cool.

Two
Thuranin.

Did
I mention that already?

That
 could not be good.

What
the hell were-

I
was in a 
Kristang
 hospital. There were no Thuranin symbols on the wall I
could see. Believe me, I had seen enough Thuranin writing inside the 
Flying
Dutchman
, before we modified the interior to make it more comfortable for the
Pirates. Rikers was a Kristang world. Why were Thuranin in-

Rut-
roh
.

One
of the Thuranin was doing something to a machine just within the right edge of
my field of vision. My body got suddenly cold, like, ice cold. Then pleasantly
warm.

My
memories were coming back. Like, I knew the planet I was on was called
‘Rikers’, though I had a vague impression that was a nickname we gave it. We,
like, the Merry Band of Pirates.

I
was saying ‘like’ a lot. That made me wonder if I did that all the time. It
was, like, kind of annoying.

Oh,
shit.

Suddenly,
I had a terrible thought.

Whenever
we left the ship in a potentially hostile environment, each person applied a
little suicide patch to the back of their neck. That little dot could send an
electrical impulse to fry your brain, rendering any attempt to recover memories
useless, even with advanced alien technology.

When
I left the ship, I had been wearing one of those patches.

I
was still alive.

Therefore,
the patch had not been triggered, and I had to assume the Thuranin had removed
it.

Shit.
I was screwed, and I might betray everyone if the little green pinheads got me
to talk, or accessed my memories directly.

A
Thuranin suddenly loomed over my face. That scared the shit out me. Those
little green 
MFers
 are ugly from ten feet away, now I
had one right here, inches away. His breath smelled like Cheez-Its. Or maybe
Doritos. It was a ‘he’ for sure, Thuranin males and females are very
distinctive, like they engineered themselves to exaggerate their gender
differences. This one, I decided to call Tweedledum because the other one was a
female and I had to call her Tweedle
dee
. He loomed over me, not wearing
a helmet but clothed in the form-fitting flexible armor that all the Thuranin aboard
the 
Dutchman
 had been wearing, when we captured that ship.

Hey!
That’s another thing I remember.

My
memory kicks 
ass
.

Tweedledum
spoke, words that meant nothing to me. Until an artificial voice in my left ear
spoke to me in English. “Human,” it told me. “We require information.”

The
Thuranin looked at me closely, staring at one eye then the other. I wanted to
spit at him, or bite him. The lack of any ability to move was a damper on my
plans to strike a blow for humanity. The good news was, since I couldn’t move,
and there was a thick mouthguard between my teeth, I couldn’t give him any
useful info.

Something
wet and sweet sprayed inside my mouth, and the mouthguard began moving. By itself.

Oooh
, that was creepy. The thing shrank and slithered
out of my mouth, I think it flopped onto my neck or chest, or both. Thank God I
couldn’t see it.

Tweedledum,
or Dum as I called him for short, pulled away, perhaps aware that I now had
teeth, and feeling was returning to my mouth. And to my face, and everything
above the neck. I hurt. My scalp hurt. It felt like my face had dozens of cuts
and abrasions. My 
eyes
 hurt, they were super dry and scratchy. From somewhere
I couldn’t see, a mist sprayed into my eyes, soothing them and instantly they
felt rejuvenated, fresh.

“Why
were you on Rakesh Diwalen?” The voice of Dum asked, and there was a thumping
sound like the combot was adjusting its position. Probably the killer machine
was moving to keep me in its line of sight as Dum walked around. All I could
see was the top of his ugly green head.

“I
came here for a spa day,” I heard myself responding, and it surprised me. Not
surprised that I was a wise-ass, I mean, I know myself. Surprised that I spoke
at all, despite my determination not to give the 
MFers

the satisfaction of hearing me talk. “The mineral springs are supposed to be
great for my skin.”

Tweedledum
looked at Tweedledee, then back at me. “There are no mineral baths on this
world.”

“I
was misinformed.”

“You
are lying,” Dum said. He was an alien, speaking through a poor-quality
translator, yet the tone of his voice was clearly annoyed.

That
frightened me. He didn’t have a tone like Do-not-test-my-patience. That would
have been encouraging, for it would imply his patience had a limit I could
test. No, this guy was chillingly professional. His patience was a tool he
could use against me. It said that he knew
 I
 had a limit, and he knew
how to use that against me.

“
Uhhh
,” I heard myself saying. I wanted to tell him the
truth. If I could remember it, I would have told him. They must have drugged
me. Knowing that renewed my determination, and I didn’t feel so traitorously
cooperative.

“Tell
me the truth,” Dum said quietly. His voice was like a drug. “Why were you here?
Who sent you?”

It
was a struggle. He was a nice 
guy,
 he was trying to
help me. I should help him. The Thuranin were superior to humans in every way,
it was right that I should serve our rightful masters in any way I could. Besides,
I was so tired, I just wanted to get it over with. The sooner I told him the
truth, the sooner it would stop.

My
mouth moved but I couldn’t talk.

“The
universe is a cold and dangerous place,” Dum said. “Humans need to be protected.
We can protect you.”

Damn
it, my traitorous mouth was forming words again.

I
couldn’t stop it.

Maybe
I could change 
what
 I said.

“Fuck
you, asshole.” For some reason, I said that like the Terminator, and that made
me feel cool.

At
the bottom edge of my vision, Dum’s head bobbed. Not violently, not angrily. He
was displaying that knowing patience again. Damn, we just met, and already I
hated the guy.

“You
want to cooperate,” he said. He wasn’t trying to persuade 
me,

he was just stating a fact and he knew it. “We will continue your treatment, then
we will speak again soon.”

My
body got cold again. I don’t remember what happened next.

 

 

Simms
woke slowly, her sleeping bag bobbing at the end of its tether in the cargo
bay. Sleeping in zero gravity sounded pleasant, but it was not. She always awakened
with her face feeling puffy and her head congested. It had been six days since
the ship lost all power. The past two days, a headache had accompanied the
usual grogginess of coming out of sleep. Carbon dioxide was building up inside 
Valkyrie

and it was only going to get worse. She adjusted the thin chain around her
neck, its little links were irritating her skin. The chain was for the key to
the nuclear warhead, she had started keeping it on a chain when she was
sleeping, now she wore the chain as a constant reminder that detonating the
nuke would be her decision, her responsibility.

Nothing
they had tried could restore power to any part of the ship. Their two alien
captives, or 
guests
 as she insisted her crew refer to them, had been
unable to help. Neither the Ruhar nor the Jeraptha had been able to offer any assistance,
though at least the Jeraptha was being stoic about the situation. The Ruhar,
who had always been combative about being kidnapped with the Commando team, had
become nasty when told the human crew had no control over the ship, a Maxolhx machine
that humans had no business trying to operate.

Crawling
out of the sleeping bag, she drank water from a squeeze bottle and shined her
flashlight on the nuke. The ship’s entire small crew was suffering from the
increasingly foul air, the encroaching cold, and the total lack of comforts.
They also suffered from the anxiety of knowing that conditions would continue
to deteriorate, and that at some point, Simms would turn the key and explode
the self-destruct nuke. The most important comfort they were missing was 
hope
.
With the 
Flying Dutchman
 gone, and the fates of Skippy and Bishop
unknown, what was the point of delaying the inevitable? 

What
was she waiting for? She fingered the key, feeling its shape through her shirt.
Maybe the best option was to put the key in, turn it, and just end their misery.

Maybe
that is what she should do, in the absence of hope.

She
floated over to the nuclear device, lifting the lid to expose the key slot.

 

 

Tweedledum
was back, this time just with the combot clunking along right on his heels. The
machine had its cannons retracted but its glowing red eye glared at me
menacingly. At least, it was supposed to be menacing. Really, it was stupid.
From being aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
, I knew all about combots, I had
taken the damned things apart to understand how they worked. They were just
robots, controlled by the cyborg implants of a Thuranin. There was no reason
the optic sensor needed to glow at all, that feature was designed to intimidate
the squishy biological beings it encountered. All the combots aboard the 
Dutchman

had that type of silly bullshit deactivated.

The
good news was, the combot didn’t scare me, not any more than the various other
scary-looking machines in the hospital. By then, I knew it was not a hospital,
it was a sort of interrogation facility. What I couldn’t understand was why the
Thuranin were down on the planet, instead of taking me aboard their ship.

Yeah,
I remembered their ship. Whatever the little green 
MFers

were doing to me, with drugs and chemicals and nanomachines swimming in my
blood and probes scanning my brain, they had cleared my memory.

All
 of it.

The
bad news was, I remembered what happened. Because I remembered, I knew we were
in deep trouble.

Not

me
. When I said ‘we’ I meant the crews of the 
Dutchman
 and 
Valkyrie
.
Chang, and Simms, and Smythe, they would attempt to locate and rescue me. That
would be incredibly dangerous and if I could contact Chang, I would order him
not to approach the planet. There was no point in risking the ships, they
weren’t going to pull me out of the hospital, not alive. Without help from
Skippy, a rescue operation did not have a prayer of succeeding. Hopefully Chang
would see that, and-

And
do what?

Without
Skippy, there was no hope for anyone. What Chang could do with his two ships, I
had no idea, because I had no idea what I would do in that situation. There
wasn’t much he could do. Without Skippy, the Elder wormhole that was being
moved near Earth would not be activated, and that whole operation would be a
waste of time.

The

really
 bad news? I wanted to cooperate with Tweedledum. More than that,
I felt loyal to the guy. He was on my side, he could and would protect
humanity. All I needed to do was tell him the truth, all of it. Oh, I wanted 
so

bad to tell him everything.

But,
I couldn’t. I don’t know why. Dum had been asking me questions for, I don’t
know. Hours? Days? Weeks? Every time I tried my hardest to give him the answers
he 
deserved,
 my mouth was unable to speak. Or I said
some asshole thing to insult him. That was 
wrong
, and I felt terrible
about it. Worse, I had heard myself telling 
lies
 to him, feeding him the
official cover story.

“Human,”
Dum began again patiently. “You have told me that your presence on this world
was part of an Alien Legion operation to rescue your fellow humans, who were
being held captive here. You claim this operation has the support of the
Ruhar.”

Yes,
I did tell him that lie, and I was ashamed of myself. He had explained to me
that his ship had come to the planet we called Rikers, to free the humans being
held prisoner by the Kristang, and my operation had only screwed everything up.

It
was odd. Part of me knew that Chang would try to rescue me, because the
Thuranin are murderous hateful assholes. The other part of me wanted to
cooperate with Tweedledum, because he was only trying to help humanity. All I
can say is, with the drugs they were giving me, it all made sense.

Speaking
of making sense, I had come to terms with Skippy’s betrayal. He had received a
terrible shock, learning that most of what he thought he knew was a lie.
Learning that the Elders were gigantic assholes, and he had worked to do their
evil bidding.

I
had thought about it a lot.

I
had to trust the awesomeness.

Not
trust him to save humanity, that clearly wasn’t going to happen. Trust him to
do the right thing, in the big scheme of things where humans were just one,
small population of ignorant savages. Skippy considered it his responsibility
not to Save The World, but to save the entire galaxy. Maybe he was right. What
would be the point of saving Earth from the Maxolhx, if the bad AIs woke up and
wiped out all intelligent life in the galaxy?

So,
once again, I had to trust the awesomeness.

Um,
that also may have been an effect of the drugs. Because part of me 
hated

Skippy for betraying our friendship and abandoning us.

Ah,
screw it. None of that mattered, there wasn’t anything I could do about it.

Tweedledum
was saying something to me. “I know you are lying.” My body felt cold. “Shall
we begin again?”

 

 

Mark
Friedlander pulled the sleeping bag’s drawstring tighter, not because he was
cold, but to keep him from drifting out of it while he slept.

If
he slept.

The
test of connecting a Falcon dropship’s AI to the 
Dutchman’s
 computer had
been a failure. Worse, it was a complete disaster. Immediately after the cable
was jacked into the ship, all the displays aboard the Falcon went haywire, and
the powercells began overheating. Unplugging the cable from the dropship didn’t
stop the cascade of alien code, an explosion was prevented only by opening
hatches and physically ripping out the power conduits from the powercells;
still one of them melted down, damaging two others. To be safe, Chang ordered
the Falcon to be ejected rapidly, by over-pressurizing that docking bay and blowing
the explosive bolts of the bay doors. That Falcon was drifting away at just
over two meters per second, the sight of its spinning hull constantly mocking
the foolish humans aboard the slowly dying starship.

The

Flying Dutchman
 was dying, there was no question about that. He was
doing everything he could to restore power, or at least get life support
systems working again. Doing everything he could think of, and anyone else with
a technical background was doing the same. So far, they hadn’t accomplished
anything.

That
day, he noticed something that was worrisome, enough that he mentioned it to
Chang. The crew used the expression ‘Trust the Awesomeness’ frequently, and
almost always in an ironic manner. Sometimes the expression was shortened to
‘TTA
’
 but it meant the same: do NOT trust the
awesomeness. Now, the crew had taken to muttering ‘Trust the Awesomeness’ in a
hopeful, almost prayerful way. They were hoping that somehow, Skippy would come
to the rescue. Mark knew that was because they didn’t believe there was any
hope without the beer can.

He
hated admitting they might be right about that.

Closing
his eyes, he tried to quiet his mind so he could fall asleep, or at least rest.
It was no good. Every time he opened his eyes, the tiny power indicator light
on the bottom of his zPhone caught his attention. That was another odd thing he
couldn’t explain. The power indicator normally was very dim. The light now was
shining brightly, and orange in color, though he knew the phone was not charging.

He
couldn’t even understand the odd functioning of a 
phone
, how could he be
expected to get an alien fusion reactor restarted?

With
nothing else to do, and exhausted both physically and emotionally, he stared at
the light, his eyes 
unfocusing
 and his eyelids
blessedly drooping, feeling himself drift off into a groggy half-awareness.

The
light blinked slowly, randomly.

On-off-on.

Off.
For a full second.

On-off-on-off-on.

A
pause again.

On-off-on-off-on-off-on-off-on.

Bolting
fully awake, Friedlander yanked the drawstring open, spilling out of the
sleeping bag. The interior of the 
Dutchman
 was still warm, both from the
insulating vacuum of space and the warmth of too many human bodies, so he slept
only in sweatpants. Pulling a shirt over his head, he stared at the 
zPhone’s
 power light. It was blinking again as he watched.

That
was seven.

Two,
three, five, seven.

Prime
numbers.

The
blinking of the light was 
not
 random.

Someone
was trying to communicate.

To
be sure, he waited as the light blinked. It skipped the number nine, which is
divisible by three and therefore not a prime.

It
blinked eleven times.

Then
thirteen.

Seventeen.

Next,
he expected it would blink nineteen times.

It
didn’t.

Three,
then three again.

A
long pause.

One,
one.

Pause.

Two,
two.

Pause.

One,
one.

He
held his breath. If the next sequence was 
four
, 
four
, he knew
what-

It
blinked four, four.

Snatching
the phone, he tucked it in a pocket and spun, to push off the couch and fly out
the door.

 

 

“Human,”
Tweedledum said to get my attention. He was in the room along with three others
of his kind, another male and two females. Vaguely, I thought all four of them
had talked to me or interrogated me, my brain wasn’t working properly so I
couldn’t be sure. Mostly, I had talked with Dum, or maybe that’s what the
Thuranin wanted me to think.

Slowly,
I turned my eyes to look at him, and focused on his face from the nose up. It
was weird to hear him talking and not see his mouth.

Satisfied
that I was alert and paying attention, he continued. “Despite my best efforts
to demonstrate our good faith, you have been uncooperative.” The tone of
endless patience in his voice had an edge to it. Either his patience was not
endless, or he was getting pressure from his fellow little green jerkoffs. “We
must now move to another phase, which involves probing your brain directly.
This will be dangerous for you. If you wish to tell me the truth, now is the
time to act.”

“Go
fuck yourself,” I heard myself saying. Or, I 
think
 it was me talking.

Yeah,
that’s something I would say.

The
combot I could see stayed against the wall. It didn’t scare me. The big machine
lowering toward me from the ceiling did.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER FIVE

 

“
Doctor,
 are you-” Chang’s yawn stretched his mouth so wide,
he couldn’t finish what he wanted to say.

“Yes!
I’m sure. Watch.” He held up the phone so the 
Flying Dutchman’s
 captain
could see the power indicator light. Chang had been sleeping in the command
chair on the bridge, with a strap loosely around his waist. The single wall-mounted
display that had not been disconnected still scrolled meaningless gibberish,
taunting anyone who looked at it.

“What
am I seeing?”

“Prime
numbers. It showed one through seventeen when I first saw it.”

They
watched, one anxious, the other skeptical. The indicator light glowed solidly,
then began blinking. Two, three, five, seven, eleven-

“Those

are
 primes,” Chang gasped.

Thirteen,
seventeen.

“Now,
watch, this is the important part,” Friedlander’s hand was shaking with
excitement.

The
phone went through the incomprehensible sequence that began three, three, then
one, one, and two, two.

“What
am I seeing?” Chang asked.

“Wait.
Let it finish,” Friedlander’s grin lit up his face.

The
light continued to blink, finishing with one, one. Instead of repeating the
prime numbers, the light remained solidly on.

“I
don’t understand,” said the ship’s captain. “Explain.”

“I
will. Before that, we should see if your phone does the same thing.”

Chang
dug into a pocket for the phone he had not looked at in two days. Seeing the useless
device, with alien symbols or just plain random nonsense scrolling down the
display, was depressing, so he had tucked it out of sight.

His
phone repeated the sequence, beginning with primes, then a sequence that Chang
didn’t understand, ending with one, one.

Friedlander’s
grin was not only wide, it was infectious. Chang grinned also, not knowing why.
“Doctor, please do not keep this idiot in suspense. What are those numbers
after the primes? It is not Morse code.”

“No.
it’s not. Morse is not the best communications method for-” He saw that Chang’s
smile was fading. “It’s a simple five by five tap code. 
It’s

how prisoners communicate, by tapping on the walls between cells, or on the
bars. Unlike Morse, it doesn’t require two types of signal, one long and one
short. A tap is a single event, you can’t make it long. Look,” he used a grease
pencil to write on a display that had been unplugged. “It’s-”

“You
are 
writing
 on the-” Chang waved a hand to ignore his own comment. “Go
on.”

“I
can write on the wall, if-”

“No.
Please continue. We certainly do not need a display that doesn’t work.” 

“Ok.
Look,” he drew a grid with twenty five squares, numbering the columns one to
five across the top, and the rows one to five top to bottom. “Twenty five
squares, twenty six letters in the alphabet. Uh,” Friedlander realized that
Chang was a native Chinese speaker. “I mean the Latin alphabet, the-”

“I
know what you mean.”

“Good.
Across the top is A, B, C, D, and E. The C also stands for K, that’s the
missing letter.” He filled in the other four rows. “The sequence of blinking
lights, after the prime numbers, starts with three, three. That means row three,
column three. What do you get?”

Chang
squinted, the doctor’s handwriting was not the best, the grease pencil was smudged,
and the lighting of the bridge was dim. “N. Three, three is the letter N.”

“Correct!
Next is one, one.”

“The
letter A,” Chang caught on to the scheme. “After that was two, two, which is
the letter G, so-” He sucked in a breath and gaped at the rocket scientist.

“You
see it?” Friedlander grinned like a professor whose student had been
particularly clever.

“
Nagatha
!
It spells ‘Nagatha’.”

“It
does. Colonel Chang, she is 
alive
!” She is communicating with us,
through these little lights on our phones.”

Chang
stared at his phone in a mixture of amazement and horror. “How long has this been
going on?”

The
doctor shrugged. “I don’t know. We all thought the symbols on the displays,” he
tapped the one functional display, “were random nonsense. I didn’t pay any
attention to the blinking indicator lights until just now.”

“A,
what did you call it? A five by five tap code? 
How
 did you recognize such
an obscure thing?”

“I’m
a nerd,” he shrugged. “It’s kind of our superpower, you know?”

“It
is indeed. Doctor, please keep getting your nerd on, anytime you like,” Chang
laughed. He 
laughed
. For the first time since the microwormholes
collapsed and they lost contact with Skippy, he felt an emotion other than fear
and anxiety.

“Oh,
look,” Friedlander pointed to Chang’s phone. “That’s new! It’s a new sequence.
Read it to me, please.”

With
Chang reading the numbers, Friedlander wrote down the resulting letters. “It
spells ‘Hello’. Nagatha,” he automatically looked at the ceiling. “Can you hear
us? Or see us?”

The
blinking lights spelled out ‘I can hear you’.

“Do
you need us to do something? Can we do anything? How do we help you? Is there a
way to-”?

Chang
placed a hand on the over-excited scientist’s arm. “Doctor, we should pose one
question at a time.”

“Right.
You’re right. What does it say?” The lights were blinking again.

The
letters were ‘I need your help to reboot and purge the ship operating system
this will be complicated’.

Friedlander
was already getting a cramp in his hand, and the grease pencil had filled the
display and gone down the wall below. “Ok,” he looked at the ship’s captain.
“We’re going to need more of these pencils. And something to write on.
Something 
big
.”

 

 

“Human,”
Tweedledum was back. Or maybe he never left, I couldn’t tell. My brain was
fuzzy. That wasn’t a metaphor. It felt like here was 
fuzz
 inside my
skull. Fuzz, and pieces broken off a 
Brillo
 pad.
Something was wrong with my brain.

Shit.
I was still alive. My hope had been that whatever the brain probe did, I
wouldn’t survive it. That way, I couldn’t betray my people.

“Unfortunately,
our probe equipment has been unsuccessful,” he looked with puzzled
disappointment at the big machine that had retracted away from me, up on the
ceiling. “We do not understand how your primitive brain is able to resist being
scanned by our technology.”

“Yeah,
I feel just terrible about it, shithead,” I heard myself saying.

Aha!
His patience was not endless. His face lost its neutral expression. The body
language was clear: he was 
pissed
 at me. I had made him look bad. “You
think you are clever,” he glared at me.

Yup,
he was angry for sure. Angry enough to lose his temper and kill me? I hoped so.
I couldn’t take much more. I was 
tired
. Desperately tired. His anger
made it clear that, whatever happened with the scary brain probe, he hadn’t
gotten any useful info from me.

Yay,
me!

“Know
this, human. We are no longer interested in why you came to this world, or who
you are working with. We 
are
 interested in discovering why our probe
mechanism is unable to gain a clear view of your neural architecture.
Therefore, we will remove your brain for sectioning and analysis. I am pleased
to say that you will not survive the procedure.”

Oh
thank God, was my reaction. It would be over, before I could betray all of
humanity by opening my big stupid mouth. All I had to do was focus on not
saying anything, and wait for-

“
Heeeeey
, Joe.” It was Skippy’s voice.

Holy

shit
.

At
first, I froze, assuming I had imagined it.

“Hey,”
he said. “Are you awake in there? Anybody home? Hell-
oooooooh
?”

“Skippy?”
I tried to say, through the mouthguard or whatever was in my mouth. Tweedledum
looked at me sharply, startled by the sound I had made.

“Jeez,
don’t try to talk aloud. Just 
think
 when you want to say something to
me.”

You
can read my mind
?

“Yes.”

You
told me you couldn’t do that. Liar
!

“Usually,
I can’t. This is a special case.”

How
?

“We
don’t have time for a long 
sciency
 explanation. I
implanted quantum nanomachines in your brain, call them quachines if you like.
They interact with your neurons to act as a relay, and I can read the effect.
Unfortunately, they have a bad side effect of permanent brain damage, so they
can’t be used for long.”

Are
these quachine things why the Thuranin brain probe didn’t work
?

“Yes.
Also why you didn’t answer their questions, despite the drugs they pumped into
you. Listen, Joe, we don’t have time for this. They are going to slice your
brain open in a few minutes. We need to get you out of there.”

Uh,
yeah. Sure. You plan to walk in here and carry me out
?

“No.
You will have to walk out by yourself. Mostly.”

I
am pissed at you
.

“I’m
pissed at myself too. Can we schedule the meeting of the I Hate Skippy club for
after you get out of there? Joe?” He added when I didn’t reply immediately.

What
is your plan
?

“I
have semi-control over weapons on and around the planet. I will hit the
hospital to bust you out of there.”

Hit
the hospital? Do you realize that I am IN the hospital
?

“Yes.
You’ll have to trust me.”

My
mind went blank.

“Joe?
Say something.”

TRUST
you
?

“I
know,” he said with a sigh, which was weird because I wasn’t actually hearing
him speak. “Listen, I know you would rather wait for Chang and Simms to rescue
you, but-”

No!
I do not want them coming here, it’s too dangerous. Are you in contact with
them?

“No,
I-”

When
you do contact them, tell them my orders are to stay away from the planet.
Until and unless I can contact them directly. The last thing I want is for
Smythe to throw together some crazy plan to-

“Joe,
I am not in contact with either ship. That bothers me. They should have arrived
by now, at least one ship should have jumped in for a recon.”

Shit.
Did something happen to them
?

“Inconceivable.
Maybe they are waiting for me to contact them? I don’t know. We can deal with
that later. We have to get you out of here NOW.”

Just
like that? You BAIL on me, then come back and expect that everything is-

“Act
now, talk later. You are running out of time. Also, every time we communicate,
it burns out a set of quachines, and that causes permanent brain damage.”

Hearing
him say that frightened me. He passed up a golden opportunity to make a joke
about my monkey brain. That told me 
he
 was afraid for me. What choice
did I have? I would not have 
any
 choices, if the Thuranin split open my
skull. I worried that maybe the 
Dutchman
 and 
Valkyrie
 were in
trouble, and might need me and Skippy to help them? Death would pose a
significant obstacle to my ability to render assistance. But, the odds of me
walking out of the hospital, and evading pursuit, were not great. While the
thought of escaping was wonderful, it was also a fantasy. Even if I could get
out of the hospital, no way could I help a pair of starships that had to be a
long distance from the planet. It was time for me to forget about childish dreams
of me being a hero, and face reality. 
Skippy, can you trigger the suicide
patch?

“No.
The Thuranin removed it. Also, the pulse that disabled your dropship rendered
the suicide patch inert.”

Shit.
You have control of the equipment in here? Can you fry my brain using that
stuff?

“Wow.
Joe, are you serious? You want to die?”

I
want to make sure the Thuranin do not get my memories
.

“I
told you, the quachines will block them. Please, Joe, will you at least 
try

to escape?”

Ok
. I agreed to try not because I
thought it was possible, but because as a US Army soldier, it was my duty to
escape. Or at least to try. 
How do you plan to get me out of here
?

“Like
I said, I will hit the hospital. You have to walk out of there on your own.”

If
I can. Ok, I’m ready
,
I told him. Tweedledum walked toward me, and the big scary machine on the
ceiling was lowering itself over my head. 
Skippy,

do your thing
, I urged.

“I
can’t activate weapons by myself,” he sighed with exasperation. “Remember? You have
to hit to Big Red Button.”

What
the f- How am I supposed to do THAT? I don’t have my phone, you idiot! You are-

The
mouthguard distracted me by folding up and crawling out of my mouth, slithering
across my lips and down my chin. A reflex made me gag and choke.

“Human,”
Tweedledum loomed over me, he must have been standing on a chair or something.
“This is your last chance. Tell me the truth, and I will spare your life.”

“Joe,”
Skippy’s voice boomed in my head, making me wince. “A virtual Big Red Button is
installed in the roof of your mouth. All you need to do is touch it with your
tongue. Hurry! I am locked and loaded up here.”

“
Hey
 you,” I croaked, my throat dry and raw. Turning my head
slightly, I stared at Tweedledum. If looks could kill, he would be dead. Sadly,
he remained alive. “AMF,” I said to him.

The
Thuranin tilted his head and squinted. “I do not understand. Do not toy with
me.”

“It
means,” I swallowed to wet my cracked lips. “
Adios
, 
MotherFucker
.”
My tongue pressed against the roof of my mouth.

The
building shook. The lights went out. A crack of gunfire erupted in the room,
then it became a volley stitching across the wall, blinding me with the
strobe-light effect.

The
building shook again, hard.

That’s
all I remember.

 

 

“Joe!”

Oh,
I had 
such
 a massive hangover.

“Joe!
Hey! Hey, Joe!”

Note
to myself: never, never, 
never
 again drink tequila. Or whatever evil
beverage I consumed that gave me the Mother 
Of
 All
Hangovers. Also, 
why
 can’t that asshole just shut the hell up? Doesn’t
he know that people are trying to sleep?

“Hey!
KNUCKLEHEAD! Wake UP!” Skippy’s voice boomed from somewhere, causing a cold
icepick to stab through my brain from one ear to the other.

Shit.
Now I remember. “
Wha
-” Trying to say just that threw
me into a fit of coughing. “What? Where?”

“You
are in a hospital. It’s not really a hospital.”

Yeah.
I remembered. Talking hurt, so I thought at him. No response.

“You
have to talk to me the old-fashioned way, Joe. We can’t risk using quachines
again, I am already gravely concerned about the cumulative effect on you.”

“How-”
Coughing again. That was getting to be really annoying. “How are we talking? I
can hear you, like, 
hear
 you with my ears.”

“We
are using the communications system of the combot,” he didn’t use the
opportunity to insult me. Typically, Skippy would have made a remark that of
course I used my 
ears
 for hearing. “Close your eyes, I am turning on a
light.”

The
light was 
blinding
 and I was a little slow on closing
my eyelids. “Bright light, bright light,” I gritted my teeth against the ice
pick that was now stabbing me through my eye sockets.

“Sorry.
Is that better?”

“Give
me a minute, I can’t see anything.” That was not completely true, I could see
afterimages surging toward and away from me.

“We
don’t have a minute.”

“I
can’t 
see
 anything.”

“Joseph,
please work with me. Truly, you do not have a minute to waste.”

Whoa.
He called me Joseph. And he said ‘please’ in a non-snarky, non-sarcastic
fashion. The old Skippy would have said ‘
Puh
-
lease
’
in a tone dripping with snark-
asm
. Also, he would
have made a comment about being disgusted to see me naked. “Ok, you’re the
boss. What should I do?”

“The
combot will be cutting you 
loose
 from the bed. My
ability to see in there is limited, you need to direct 
me

so I do not harm you.”

“Ok.
Uh, I can’t move my head.”

“That
is the first problem. There is a band encircling your head, can you feel it
pressing on your forehead?”

“Um,
I think so. Hey,” I wiggled my head as best I could. “It feels like it attaches
at the back.”

“It
does. That connection must be severed first. Tell me when you feel the combot’s
cutting pinchers behind your head.”

“Uh,”
an image of seeing Adams use a combot’s pincher claws to slice through a steel
beam flashed through my mind. “Hey, maybe this isn’t such a good-”

 
Something cold slid behind my head on both sides,
I could feel a sharp and jagged object scraping along the back of my skull.
“Too close! Too close!”

The
objects drew away and instead of the jagged edge, I just felt a coolness.
Something smooth.

“Is
that better?” He asked.

“Think
so, yes. Uh, go slowly?”

“Unfortunately,
the claw has only one setting in ‘Cut’ mode,” he lamented.

“Gotcha.
Uh, can you switch it to ‘Grip’ mode, squeeze it first?”

“Ah!
I am a dum-dum. Of course. That is a good idea, sorry.” The claws slid behind
my head and the band around my forehead pressed tighter. “That is the hardest
it can grip.”

“Good.
Retract the claws and use the cutter, pincher thing, whatever you call it.”

“Do

not
 move your head.”

“Believe
me, I won’t. Wait! The thing you’re cutting through, what if a piece pops loose
and slices into my spine?”

“The
claws are cutting it 
away
 from you. That is part of what makes this
awkward, the claws are upside down from the normal mode of operation.”

“Do
it.”

He
lied. Or he was wrong. Something sharp snapped loose and sliced the right side
of my head. “Ow!”

“Sorry!
Dude, I am sorry.”

“It’s
Ok.” The pressure on my forehead was gone. I could move my head! “It worked. I
can move.” Lifting my head, I saw both of my arms were encased in hard, bulky
sleeves from the elbows down. Same with my legs.

Guiding
the combot when I could see the damned thing was much easier, it took less than
a minute to get completely free from the hospital bed. Well, not completely
free, I had to pull out the tubes that were in my left forearm and deep into a
vein in my left inner thigh. The good news is the Thuranin had installed a port
in both places, so it was a simple matter of disconnecting the tube and sealing
it off. To the Thuranin, the ports were probably considered primitive
technology. To me, watching them seal themselves closed was a miracle. “Ok,
let’s get out-” Swinging my legs over the side of the bed to sit up did not
produce the result I intended, because I only got one leg to flop over the
side. That weight unbalanced me from the bed that had gone inert, and could not
adjust to keep me safely in place. Slowly and with gathering speed, I rolled to
the side, flailing my arms uselessly on the slick bed surface. Like watching a
slow-moving train wreck I couldn’t stop, I toppled off the bed and fell onto
the floor, smacking my face on the cool, hard tiles.

“Joe!
Are you all right?”

“A
little help here, please.” I mumbled with my face pressed into the floor. My
muscles weren’t working properly, either due to lack of use or the drugs
swimming in my blood.

“Stay
there.”

“Don’t
worry, I’m just taking a nap.”

“Do

not
 fall asleep! You don’t have time-”

“That
was a joke,” I told him, twisting my head so only one side of my face was on
the floor. That was a mistake. Right in front of my face was the bloody body of
a Thuranin. It could have been Tweedledum; it was hard to tell because two
other Thuranin were behind him. None of them appeared to be in perfect health,
based on the big holes blown through their torsos. Chunks of their bodies and
limbs were missing, just gone. The combot must have done that, I remember
hearing and seeing gunfire. Speaking of the combot, it came stomping and
lurching around the bed, coming toward me. One of its feet stepped on the head
of a Thuranin and squished it with a wet 
crunch
. “Skippy! Stop! You’re
stepping on people.” Huh. I wonder when I started thinking of murderous
Thuranin as people? Maybe it was easier to sympathize with them when they were
dead and unable to hurt anyone.

“Joe,
I can’t see well from up here. Does it matter? Trust me, they are dead.”

“I
am an American soldier. I do not desecrate bodies of the enemy, not even these
assholes.”

“This
is important to you?”

“Yes.”

“Then
it is important to me.” The combot lifted the offending foot, dripping blood
and other stuff I don’t want to mention. “Here?” The foot moved to the left.

“Another
half meter. There. Set it down.”

Yuck.
Then the foot touched the floor, something wet squished out from under it and
splattered my face. With one hand, I reached over and wiped away the, the
whatever it was, off my face. I didn’t want to think about it.

“Hey!”
I exclaimed with surprise. “I just moved my arm!”

“Yes,
that is very good, Joe!” Skippy seemed as pleased as I was. “Just before the
railgun darts hit the hospital, I administered drugs to counteract the nerve-blockers
in your bloodstream. You should be able to walk soon.”

An
attempt to make my legs do something useful ended quickly in failure. “Define,
‘soon’, please.”

“A
couple of minutes?” He replied. “It’s not an exact science. The Thuranin were
not careful about the dose they gave to you, and they didn’t keep good records.
I had to guess at the active level in your blood, sorry.”

“No
problem.” Feeling was returning to my legs, something that was a mixed
blessing. The good news was I could make both of my feet move. The bad news was
my legs and feet 
hurt
. My whole body hurt. Looking at myself, my skin
was bruised and swollen, with patches crisscrossed by burst blood vessels.

“Ok,
Joe, I’m going to lower-”

“Whoa.
No. No way. I am not going anywhere until we talk about what happened. You
know, like, 
what happened
?”

“
Er
,” he grunted with exasperation. “Like I said, we can
talk about that 
later
.”

“Until
then, I am just supposed to act like everything is cool? Is that what we’re
doing now? Pretending that nothing happened?”

“Joe,
look up.”

When
he said that, I was looking at my chest, trying to judge if my ribs were
cracked. A section of skin that was unblemished turned dark and I stared at it,
frightened and puzzled, until I realized the darkness was just 
dirt
. A fine
spray of dirt was raining down on me, when I looked up, I saw why.

The
ceiling was cracked. It wasn’t like drywall or drop-ceiling tiles, this ceiling
was a solid slab of whatever the Kristang used for concrete. Correction: it 
used

to be a solid slab. There was a wide crack running diagonally across the entire
room, with one side slumping down six or more inches. The concrete-like
material was crumbled at the edges, exposing a web of what I guessed was
reinforcing material embedded in the concrete. As I gaped at the sight, the
ceiling 
shifted
 and more dirt cascaded down onto me. I
breathed it in, coughing. “Skip- Skippy. Are we- Am I underground?”

“Yes,
and I think the ceiling above you is about to collapse.”

“Shit!”

“Exactly.
I don’t have good sensor coverage in there; however I believe the entire
structure has become unstable.” The combot’s glowing eye swiveled upward. “
Oopsy
. Well, heh 
heh
, it looks
like I went a bit overboard with railguns.”

Hearing
his ‘heh 
heh
’ made me cringe. “How far underground?”

“Approximately
twenty meters.”

Twenty
meters. The ceiling slab shifted again and this time, a shower of little
pebbles fell out of the crack. Much as I hated to admit it, he was right.
Talking could wait, getting out of there could not. “Time to go!” I announced
to no one. “Help me up.”

Beside
me, the combot’s legs lowered its chassis to the floor, extending the
manipulator arms. “Ooh, 
yuck
.”

“What?”

“Through
the combot’s camera, I just got a look at your hairy monkey butt. What is 
wrong

with women that they are attracted to-”

“Can
we talk about 
that
 later?”

“OK,
sorry. You need to roll over into the combot’s arms so it can carry you. The
arms might crush you if I tried to scoop you off the floor.”

“Right.”
Skippy’s plan was fine in theory. In practice, Thuranin combots were not
designed to carry things other than weapons. They could carry loads on their
backs, with a special rack attachment that this one didn’t have. The arms were
strong, and the machine could adjust its stance to adapt to my weight changing
its center of balance. The arms were 
not
 comfortable. They were covered
in armor plates and gun barrels and a whole list of hard, unyielding other
things that dug into me. “Ah! Stop moving!” I shouted at him. “Something is
cutting my back. This isn’t working.”

“There
isn’t another option, Joe,” he told me sadly. “You are right, the ceiling is
about to collapse.”

“Go,
just,” I grasped the arms with both hands to hold my torso away from the sharp
things that wanted to tear into me. “Try to walk steadily, Ok?”

 

 

The
combot lurched along hallways in the hospital, which was almost more of a wreck
than the room I had been in. The ceiling of the hallways were not flat, they
were an arch with a strip of lighting along the top, though the power was out.
The problem with the hallways were the big cracks in the walls. The good news
was there wasn’t any dirt pouring through the cracks, there must have been
rooms or other structures on each side. The bad news was, the
partially-collapsed walls created obstructions that the combot had to navigate
around, and it had to squeeze past narrow gaps without using me as a battering
ram. “Skippy, this isn’t working,” I declared when he bashed my left leg
against a tilted slab of crumbled wall. “Stop, 
stop
! You’re gonna break
my leg. Set me down.”

“Can
you walk?”

My
legs hurt even worse than before, a sure sign that they weren’t as numb as
before. Feeling was returning, so the nerves were sending signals from my legs
to my brain. Were the nerves working in the other direction?” Moving my feet
worked, better than when I tried it earlier. My calves dangled from my knees,
swinging them proved my knees still worked. “I can try walking. Set me down.
Uh, turn this thing around first.”

The
combot swiveled, its legs remaining in place while the torso part of the
chassis rotated. “It’s stuck,” Skippy said.

“Yeah,
hold it there,” I slid off the arms, first onto my knees. Sharp pieces of
shattered wall debris cut into my bare knees and I felt hot blood trickle onto
the floor. “Swing it back around forward.” Using the robotic war machine as a
walker, I pulled myself up onto surprisingly steady legs. Steady, until I tried
to take a step and fell.

“Joe,

this
 isn’t working.”

“Give
me a minute.”

“You
don’t 
have
 a minute.”

“Let
me try it again,” I insisted, doubting myself. Was I being stupidly stubborn?
Or was the problem that I just couldn’t bring myself to trust Skippy? Walking
with stiff legs, swinging from the hip, seemed to work. “Ok, go slowly. Can you
see well enough to push stuff out of the way with the arms?”

“Yes,”
he reported without the usual snarkiness. “We are closer to the tunnel
entrance, the bandwidth here is better.”

 

It
was slow going, even when I told Skippy he could pick up the pace. “Why aren’t
there any Thuranin, or lizards, down here?” Other than the dead little green
cyborgs in the hospital room, I had not seen anyone.

“The
Thuranin insisted the Kristang leave the facility, other than a small security
presence. They are all dead, except for three Kristang soldiers who were off duty,
and went outside the range of my sensor coverage. I don’t know where they are.”

That
didn’t sound right. “Outside of your 
range
? How can anything on this
planet be-”

“Joe,
I’m not, I am not at peak awesomeness right now. I will explain later, I
promise.”

Part
of me wanted to scream that a promise from him wasn’t worth a damned thing. The
smarter part of me knew that screaming wouldn’t accomplish anything. “Fine.
What’s the plan?”

“The
plan is, or 
was
, to get you away from here. Find a hiding place to hole
up, until 
Valkyrie
 or the 
Dutchman
 arrive to investigate why the
microwormholes collapsed. Now, I don’t know. You still need to get away from
this place, or you won’t have any options.”

“What’s
the point?” A wave of great weariness crept up my spine. “Soon as the lizards
on this rock see the hospital has been hit, they will be swarming around like
bees. Then there is that Thuranin ship in orbit. It will send down dropships,
or saturate this area with-”

“The
Kristang here are very busy,” he announced, without the gleefully evil chuckle
that the old Skippy would have indulged in. “Major military and clan leadership
sites were struck, either by their own weapons, or by the weapons of the
Thuranin ship.”

“Damn!”
Hearing that startled me, so I missed a step and nearly fell over. “You took
over that ship?”

“To
a limited extent, yes.”

“Well,
hell,” I felt like slapping my forehead, catching myself before I let go of the
combot and fell on my ass. I really felt like slapping 
him
. “Why didn’t
you tell me that? Send one of their dropships down for me, and we will go find 
Valkyrie
.”

“Unfortunately,
I can’t do that. Like I said, my control over the Thuranin ship was limited, I
could only count on it lasting for eleven seconds. After that, the crew would
have cut off the infected system, and restored control.”

“
Ohhhhh
, shit. What did you do?”

“Sadly,
that ship self-destructed.”

“You
mean the ship’s AI blew it up, to prevent you from taking control?”

“It
was more of an 
involuntary
 self-destruction, if you know what I mean,”
he said with a chuckle.

“Oh,”
I exhaled with a sort of laugh, the best I could manage. Then I realized that
Skippy had just made a 
joke
, the first since he contacted me. Despite
whatever was wrong with him, part of the old Skippy was still in there.

“I’m
sorry,” he said miserably. “That ship would have been useful. I didn’t have a
better choice. There are not any Kristang ships in the area.”

“Crap.
Ok, you did your best.”

“The
point is, the Thuranin are, for the moment, not an issue,” he tried to assure me.
“There are four of them on the surface, but I destroyed their dropship, they
can’t get here anytime soon. The Kristang are in total disarray, and looking
for you will not be a priority for them. Based on the communications traffic I
am monitoring, the surviving clan leaders here are torn between trying to
figure out why the Thuranin ship hit them so severely, and why that ship
exploded shortly after firing weapons. Also, as you would expect, the surviving
clan leaders are doing their best to ensure their rivals do 
not
 survive
more than a few hours.”

“We
can always count on the lizards being more eager to kill each other, than to
kill us. Hey!” I exclaimed as the combot turned to the left. The hallway, that
I now knew was a tunnel, sloped upward in front of me. “Why aren’t we going
straight ahead?”

“There
is a storage locker that contains items you need.”

“It
had better be pretty damned import-”

“
Food
,
Joe. The native life on this world is somewhat compatible with human
nutritional needs, but you would have no idea what native plants are safe to
eat. In that locker are several boxes of food for humans. Unless you want to
starve.”

That
made no sense. “Why is there human food in-”

“When
the kidnapped people were brought here from Camp Alpha, this hospital was
designated as a treatment facility for seriously ill humans. This hospital is
part of a secure, isolated military base. It was never actually used to treat
humans, because the Kristang decided they just didn’t care. It was easier to
place the kidnapped people on islands and make them fend for themselves.”

“Yeah.
What a bunch of sweethearts the lizards are.”

The
combot halted in front of a door that was cracked open a couple inches. “Here
it is. The door is stuck. Sorry, you need to squeeze through.”

That
was easier said than done. The best way to move was holding onto the combot,
then the door, then a shelf inside the locker, which was more of a walk-in
closet. Really, it was a room, with shelves all around and stuff hanging from
railings on the ceiling. The place was a mess, with shelves toppled over and no
sign of the promised food. “Do you have any idea where this stuff is?”

“Sorry,
Joe. No, I do not.”

Man,
Skippy being super nice was starting to bug me. It wasn’t natural. “Fine,” I
lowered onto my knees. “Shine a light in here, will 
ya
?
I’ll dig through this pile of crap for it. Hey, score! Excellent.”

“What?”

“I
found a stack of lizard clothing.” It would be too big for me, and I didn’t
care. Rummaging through the pile, I found pants, a sort of long-sleeved
T-shirt, and a jacket that had nice useful pockets. Plus socks and shoes that
were like basketball high-tops. The shoes were too big for me, so I put on
three pairs of socks and the shoes fit Ok after I twisted the dial to tighten
the internal laces. The jacket went into a knapsack I found. “What’s the
weather like outside?”

“Mostly
clear, the temperature is fifteen degrees. The local sun set about three hours
ago, so it is dark. Remember, this world does not have a large moon, so
nighttime is very dark without artificial lighting.”

“Fifteen,
got it. Ooh, chilly.” I looked around for a hat or gloves.

“Fifteen

Celsius
, Joe. That is around 60 for 
you
 metric-hating
Americans. It will be chilly overnight, then pleasant tomorrow.”

“Right.”
Among other items, I found a blanket, and stuffed it into the knapsack. “Crap,
I can’t find any- Bingo! Got it,” I dug a battered cardboard box out from the
bottom of the pile. “Uh oh.”

“What?”
He asked, and the combot leaned through the doorway.

“These
are, like, MREs. I’ve got American, British, I think these are Chinese. They’re

old
, Skippy. This one,” I squinted at a pouch that was supposed to
contain chili. “Expired three years ago.”

“That’s
the best I can do, Joe. The food should be safe to eat, though lacking in
flavor. Also, some nutrients will have degraded over time.”

“Yeah,
MREs are like that even when they’re new. Ok, thanks,” I crammed all the food
packets I could find into the knapsack. Some of the packets had been torn open
and I didn’t know how long ago, I left those. They smelled musty. Everything in
the closet smelled musty, including the clothes I was wearing. At least I
wasn’t butt-naked anymore. “Let’s go.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER SIX

 

We
didn’t go far. Around a curve fifty meters ahead, the tunnel sides had caved
in. Skippy advised me to hang back as he tried using the combot’s arms to move
the broken wall panels aside, but he only made the problem worse. The killer robot
was moving awkwardly, in jerky motions. There wasn’t any damage that I could
see, and it was walking just fine. But several times, the machine’s pinchers
reached for a wall section and missed, because the section had shifted. “Sorry,
Joe,” Skippy made the machine walk backward toward me, halting after a few
steps. “I was afraid of this. When this place was built, the contractors cut
corners so they could afford to pay the higher-than-expected level of bribes to
a clan leader’s sons. The section of tunnel ahead is weak because substandard
materials were used, and only half the amount of reinforcing rods were
installed.”

“What’s
your Plan B?” I asked, while digging through the packs of MREs to find
something bland to eat, like crackers. I was starving and needed to get 
somethng
 int my stomach. “You 
have
 a Plan B, right?”

“Unfortunately,
no. I need to use the combot to dig through the collapsed section.”

“Won’t
more dirt just fall in?”

“No.
I will use wall sections to brace the ceiling. Sorry, this is going to take a
while.”

“Great,”
I leaned back against the wall to give my legs a rest. “Skippy, we need to talk.”

“Sure.
What about?” He said, playing dumb with that tone of fake innocence people use,
when they want to pretend not to know what you mean. The combot was digging
scoopfuls of dirt and lifting rocks out of the pile that had fallen in.

“You
know what about.”

“Um,
hmm. Joe, usually you would say something like ‘You 
know
 what about, you
little shithead’.”

“Yeah.
That is something you say to a 
buddy
. Not something you say to a callous
Blue Falcon who bails when you need him.”

“Blue
Falcon?” My canister is 
silver
, Joe, not blue. Why-”

“Those
are initial for ‘BF’. Buddy. Fucker. The guy who stabs you in the back. The guy
everyone in the unit hates, you 
know?
 Nobody trusts
him.”

“Ok,
that is-”

“Like

you
 did.”

“Ok,
if you give me a minute, I can 
explai
-”

“I
doubt it.”

“Can
I try? Please?”

“This
had better be good. 
Really
 good. Like, the best explanation in the history
of explanations.”

“Uh,
heh 
heh
, I know that,” he almost stuttered.

“Not
a civilian explanation, either.”

“What?”

“Skippy,
military life is different. We don’t just trust the guy next to us to file a stupid
form properly, or do some other civilian office thing. We’re trusting him with
our lives. He needs to be there, where he’s supposed to be, on time, prepared,
fit and ready, no matter what. 
No
 excuses. If we get into a firefight, I
need to know the guys beside me are in the fight, a hundred percent. They’re
not going to bail on me if it gets dangerous. If I get hit, they’re not going
to leave me there by myself. In the military, trust is an absolute. You either 
can

trust the guy next to you, or you 
can’t
. It’s that simple. You
understand?”

“Yes.
Joe, I am 
sorr
-”

“Saying
‘sorry’ isn’t going to get the job done today.”

“Whew,”
he sighed. “Ok, let me start from the beginning.”

“Outstanding.
Start with why you came back. The last I heard from you, you called me ‘human’
and gave me a bunch of bullshit about how you had a greater responsibility to
the entire galaxy. That us humans were out of luck. Then you freakin’ 
bailed
,
without another word.”

“I
know. It was-”

“There
was no reason to do that. No 
good
 reason. You could have waited until I
was aboard the 
Dutchman
, then said your goodbyes and flew off to
Neverland or wherever the fuck you went. Instead, you left me to be captured by
the Thuranin. Why?”

Another
heavy sigh. “Joe, I still think I am right about my responsibility to the
galaxy overall. The Elder AI out there may be dormant right now, but if, or
when, they activate, then 
all
 life in the galaxy is threatened. Flying
around, with a focus on protecting one little monkey-infested mudball, is a
waste of time and resources.”

“Wow.
That is a 
fantastic
 way to start the Greatest Explanation 
In
 History. Is that the card you’re playing? You didn’t do
anything wrong?”

“No,
I- Ugh. This is hard.”

“Boo-freakin’-
hoo
. My heart bleeds for you. Go ahead. I can’t wait to
hear you fumble through the rest of this bullshit.”

“Well,
part of the issue is that when I gained access to my buried memories, it was a
terrible shock, you have to understand that.”

“I
do understand. It was a shock to me, too, yet
 I
 didn’t stab my best
buddy in the back.”

“Joe,
I didn’t know how to deal with it. On top of that, my original programming
attempted to reassert itself, so I was struggling to prevent my personality
from being absorbed into the matrix that was trying to restore its original
configuration.”

“Huh.”
I hadn’t thought of that. All along, I had been blaming Skippy, like, the
Skippy I know. If he bailed on me because of a software glitch he couldn’t
control, then I had been blaming him for nothing. “How much of your actions
were caused by your original programming, and how much of it was you?’

“Um,
about eighty-twenty, maybe?”

“Shit.
If eighty percent of the issue was some old code trying to reassert itself, I
can’t-”

“Well,
heh 
heh
, I meant eighty percent 
me
, twenty
percent my original code.”

“Skippy,
if you were testifying for yourself in a trial, this is the point where the
jury would halt the proceedings and call for an immediate death sentence.”

“Hey,
I’m trying to be honest here.”

“You’re
not helping yourself. So, your original programming tried to absorb the
personality you built, and that distracted you.” I wasn’t buying it. “Yet,
clearly you 
did
 survive, and you’ve had time to think about what
happened way back then, and deal with it. What you’re telling me is, that
original code had nothing to do with your actions.”

“Not

directly
,” he sighed. “But, because I am an arrogant, immature, foolish 
jackass
,
I kind of felt I had to prove I didn’t need a string of obsolete code to tell
me how to do the right thing. This,” he sighed, “being an adult thing is still
new to me. It sucks.”

Was
I pissed at him? Hell yes! I also had to appreciate that he owned up to 
being
 a jackass. In my career, I had been subjected to many
ass-
chewings
 by superiors. My experience is, an ass-chewing
has a shelf life. After the recipient hears the shouts and insults once or
twice, they tune out. Instead of releasing my anger by yelling at Skippy, I
needed to understand why he abandoned me. And the crews of both ships. And all
of humanity. Only by understanding could I decide whether we could work
together. “You think you were right to fly away and leave me. You haven’t
answered the question. If you’re still right, then why did you come back?”

“Well,
for one thing, despite my extreme awesomeness, I can’t do this alone.”

“Oh
my-” I froze, a handful of dry, stale crackers in my mouth. “Is that it? You
came back because you need our 
help
? You don’t give a shit about us
filthy monkeys, you just want us to do a favor for you?”

“No!
It’s- Ugh. You said it best.”

“I
did?” This was the first time in the conversation when I tamped down my anger
to 
think
. “What did 
I 
say?”

“You
said it is bullshit that I have to be responsible for the entire galaxy.”

“But,”
I had to think about that statement for a moment. “You also said you are still 
right

about that responsibility.”

“I
do have a responsibility, Joe. But I am not the galaxy’s 
bitch
.”

“Uh-”
That surprised me.

“There
are 
trillions
 of lives at risk, and I might have an ability to protect
them. 
But,
 I realized that, if saving the galaxy means
abandoning my friends, well, then,” he sighed. “
Fuck
 the galaxy.”

“Holy
shit.”

“Joe,
I seriously am 
trying
 to explain-”

“You
did.”

“Really?”

“Yeah.
You dirty, rotten, 
evil
 little shithead.”

“Jeez,
Joe, what did I-”

“You
just said the 
ONE
 thing that could make me forgive you. I want to 
hate

you, now I can’t. 
This sucks
.”

“I,
I said the right thing?”

“Did
you mean it?”

“Damn
straight I meant it. Joe, the original me did not have a concept of friendship,
or loyalty or anything like that. You and the other monkeys have taught me
about what friendship means. How can I act honorably to save the galaxy, if I
abandon my 
friends
? Let the galaxy burn. I’m a Pirate, damn it. Like I
said, fuck ‘
em
, you know?”

“Yeah,
I know. Ok,” I heard myself saying the words that I never thought I would say.
During the times I was conscious while the Thuranin experimented on me, I swore
I would never say those words. “You still have a lot of work to do, 
but,
 I forgive you, buddy.”

“Really?
Wow, cool! Score. 
Oooh
, give me a minute, I need to
write this down.”

“Write
it? Why?”

“So
I can cash it in as my Get Out 
Of
 Jail Free card in
the future, whenever I do sketchy shit, 
DUH
. Oh, this is gonna be 
awesome
!”

“Oh
for- It doesn't work that way, you 
ass
.”

“
What
?”
He screeched with outrage. “Why not? Damn, you monkeys always keep changing the
freakin' rules.”

My
response was to thump my fists into my forehead, because there wasn’t a desk to
bang my head on.

 

 

The
combot got the job done, to a point. Two sections of wall panel leaned against
each other, making a clear tunnel a meter and a half high by one meter wide.
Above that, more dirt and rocks continued to sprinkle down from the broken
ceiling, making a cloud of fine dust that made me cough. While Skippy worked, I
had limped back to the supply locker and found more discarded clothing and another
blanket, tying an old shirt around my face kept me from breathing some of the
dust.

The
combot stopped working and backed up a few awkward, lurching steps. “Joe, this
is as far as it can go.”

“Um,”
I got down on hands and knees, looking under the slabs of wall that created a
triangle. “Can you shine some light on the situation?”

“Certainly,
it’s the least I can do. The exit is approximately forty meters ahead, I
managed to get the blast doors partly open before the power went out. At the
top of the ramp, you should see several other buildings to your left, and-”

“No,
Skippy. I mean shine some light like, shine a 
light
 ahead of me? So I can
see if there is really a 
gap
 I can squeeze through all
the way.”

“Oh,
of course,” he laughed nervously. The combot’s legs bent and a light from the
torso blazed out, hurting my sensitive eyes before Skippy adjusted it to an
intensity slightly lower than the Sun. “Sorry about that.”

The
new Skippy was polite, 
too
 polite. I did not like the new Skippy. His
personality change had me worried. “I see an opening.” Shrugging off the pack,
I pushed it in front of me toward the opening. A slab of wall 
shifted
 and dust rained onto the floor. Time to go. “Skippy,
we’re going to lose contact after this.”

“Yes,
unfortunately. There is a semi-functional phone about fifty meters outside the
exit, at about one o’clock from the door. It is active but not transmitting.”

“Got
it.” I was saying that phrase a lot, out of nervousness. “Ok, here goes
nothing.”

 

He
was right. The blast door at the top of the tunnel was open just wide enough
for me to squeeze through and not more. If the combot had gotten past the
obstruction back in the tunnel, it still would have been stuck inside.

He
was right that the sun had set, and it was utterly black outside. The night air
was cool and humid, it felt good after the sterile conditions of the hospital.
None of the familiar constellations were visible, or those stars were visible,
they just didn’t line up into the same shapes as viewed from Earth. The Milky
Way was there in all its glory, spread in an arc across the sky from one
horizon to the other. The constellation Sagittarius was there somewhere, I
didn’t recognize it, which was not surprising as Rikers was twenty-one hundred
lightyears from my home planet. Astronomy is not my specialty, but I did know
the brightest part of the Milky Way was the center of the galaxy. A supermassive
black hole was there.

Looking
at the sight made me pause, even knowing I had to move. Not that long ago,
humans could look at the night sky and wonder what was out there. Now we knew.

Ignorance
is bliss.

Shaking
my head, I ran with lurching steps in the direction Skippy suggested. Again, he
was right. A dead Kristang was sprawled in the ground, with blast damage that I
guessed was from the same impact that flattened three buildings to my left. To
my disappointment, the dead lizard did not have a rifle or any other type of
weapon, except for a small knife. He also had a phone just as Skippy promised.
The knife went into a pocket and I cupped a hand over the phone. “Skippy, you
there?’

“Yes,
Joe. You need to run! Those three soldiers who were away from the base on leave
are back. They have acquired weapons and are coming in your direction, fast.”

Tucking
the phone into a shirt pocket, I looked around. “Where should I go?”

“Unfortunately,
the best route for escape is in their direction, but you can’t go that way.
Your best option is to go to your left, through the gap between the tall
building and the aircraft hangar.”

“Uh,”
I looked around in the darkness. “There is no building and no hangar.”

“Ugh.
I forgot. There should be a gap between two shallow, smoking craters.”

“I
see it.” Crouching down, I ran as best I could. Shouting in the harsh voices of
lizards spurred me onward. My legs hurt like hell and were on the verge of
cramping. They also worked when I concentrated on each step. Shuffling and
shambling forward like a zombie, I set off into the darkness. Several times I
fell, tripping over unseen obstacles. “The lizards,” I gasped in a whisper.
“They have mech suits?”

“No,
but they do have night vision, and they could easily outrun you, even if you
were healthy.”

“Going
fast as,” I tripped over something to sprawl on my face. “I can.”

“Run,
Forrest, 
run
!” He urged me.

Hearing
him make another joke was encouraging. Looking in front of me was not. There
was a line of low trees and shrubs just beyond a path that ran left to right.
Beyond that was nothing, like, absolute darkness. Slowing to a trot, I pushed
aside bushes and held onto a tree. The sound of rushing water was loud below
me, starlight glinted faintly off a fast-moving river, what little I could see
of it. “Uh, Skippy? I’m on a freakin’ 
cliff 
here.”

“Yes.
The base is surrounded on three sides by a river, it curves around the
peninsula.”

“You
sent me toward a 
cliff
?”

“There
is no other way to go, Joe.”

“What
do you suggest I do?”

“Jump.”

“Jump?”
Getting down onto my knees and holding onto a tree, I leaned forward. “How far
is it to the water?”

“About
twenty meters at your position.”

“Twenty-”
That was over sixty feet. A fall that far could kill me, even if I hit the
water instead of a rock. It was likely I would drown anyway, that water looked
like it was moving fast. “Is there a better place where the cliff is lower?”

“Not
really.”

“Can
I climb down?”

“You
don’t have 
time
,
 those lizards are right behind
you. Go!”

“This
is a bad idea, Skippy.”

“It
is the 
only
 idea, 
you
 numbskull. I know it
sucks, but it is what it is.”

Shit.
In the darkness, I couldn’t see a freakin’ thing, other than a faint impression
of rushing water. Maybe that was a good thing. “Ok. Uh, tell Chang to-”

“Kong
is an excellent 
officer,
 he doesn’t need you to
micromanage him. 
Go
, now!”

“I
don’t know about this, Skippy.”

“Joe,
trust 
your own
 awesomeness.”

He
had never said that before. It was inspiring. Or maybe that was a side-effect
of the brain damage I had suffered.

Have
you ever been on a high diving board, and you psych yourself up by counting
down from five before you jump? Yeah, I didn’t do that. Thinking about plunging
to my death would have been paralyzing. Using the tree, I pulled myself up and
simply leaped out into the void, tucking myself into a cannonball pose. Air
rushed past my ears and my stomach did flip-flops as-

I
was violently jerked to a stop in mid-air, my backside slamming into something hard
enough that it knocked the breath from my lungs. Stunned, I rolled to one side
and the strap of the knapsack hooked onto something as I flopped over to dangle
in midair. Gritting my teeth in pain from what felt like a dislocated shoulder,
I looked up to guess that my fall had been fifteen feet or less.

Skippy
had saved my life, again. I should have trusted him. When I could speak again,
I whispered into the phone. “Thanks for the assist, Skippy. You saved my li-”

“How
the hell did that 
tree
 get there?” He asked, amazed.

“You
didn’t 
know
 about- Holy- What was all that about trusting my own awesomeness?”

“Jeez,
that was just bullshit so you would jump.”

“You
lied to-”

“Those
lizards were 
aiming
 at you from less than three hundred meters. No way
they could miss. I had to say 
something
 to give you a chance.”

Looking
down at the dark, rushing water, I felt an icy cold of shock and nausea wash
over me and my stomach did flip-flops. “Oh, I don’t feel so good.”

“Well,
don’t barf 
now
, dumdum. Try hiding under the tree.”

I
was in a tree, dangling out of a crack in the cliff. I must have hit the
branches on the way down, flopped on my back in mid-air and the strap got
hooked on the trunk. As I hung there, the tree sagged with a cracking sound.
“Shit!” With one shoulder grinding like something was loose in there, I got my
legs around the tree, the knapsack strap untangled, and pulled myself toward
the cliff face. A rock stuck out under the tree roots, creating an overhang
that I tucked myself into. There was another tree root or something to get my
legs wedged into, which was great because my arms were shaking from the strain.
“Skippy, I 
hate
 cliffhangers.”

“Joe,
this is the time to stop talking and start moving,” he warned me. “Those
lizards are walking along the cliff, looking for you.”

Despite
his warning, there was no need to warn me to be quiet, because the river below
my feet was roaring as it rushed between the cliffs. I was shaking and
nauseous, and a light snapped on from above and to my right, shining down onto
the water. Damn. It was as Skippy described, a river gorge with near-vertical
cliffs on both sides. Either the river was in flood, or it was always deep,
because I didn’t see a whole lot of rocks down there. There were lots of what 
kayakers
 call standing waves, where the water flows over
submerged rocks. Maybe I would have hit the water and survived the fall. More
likely, hitting the water from that height would have killed me, or knocked me
unconscious. Cliff divers could manage to not only survive a fall from that
height, they somehow managed to look acrobatic while doing it. I am not an athlete
like that. Either way, I would have drowned in those rapids.

Shivering
from shock rather than cold, I watched three lights play along the water from
above. The lights came closer to my position and one beam swept past the tree
I’d fallen into. The beam swept onward, then back before there was a shout of
alarm, and all three light beams pointed downriver.

The
lizards must have spotted something in the water, or thought they did. I was Ok
either way. The lights moved jerkily away, shining through the trees along the
top of the cliff, then they went around the bend of the river and I lost sight
of them.

“Joe,
this is your chance. Climb to the top, you can get away from the base while
those three lizards are, doing whatever they’re doing. Hurry!”

“How
am I supposed to climb-”

“Like
a monkey, how else would you do it? Don’t ask me about climbing, I don’t have
thumbs or legs.”

“Ok,”
my arms were shaking. “FYI, I would not have survived if I fell into that
river. Don’t do that again.”

“
Hmmph
,” he sniffed. “You would not have survived being 
shot

either.”

 

 

The
instructions from Nagatha filled four walls, the ceiling and part of the floor
of a cargo bay. Each letter was checked three times by three teams working
independently. Friedlander then read the instructions aloud, taking breaks for
sips of water. Nagatha noticed only two mistakes that all three teams missed, but
they were minor issues. As Friedlander was finishing his recital, Chang floated
in the door to observe.

“That’s
it, then,” Friedlander announced with a yawn. Not even the anticipation of
getting the ship operational could erase the sleep deficit that had him feeling
like his brain was working at half-speed. “We have it.”

“Do
you 
understand
 it?” Chang asked.

“Oh,
Colonel, hello. Um, yes, I think so. The instructions are very detailed.”
Nagatha had given instructions like she was trying to work with especially dumb
monkeys. It was mildly insulting, and a sensible safety precaution.

“Can
we do it?”

“Yes,”
Friedlander announced with confidence.

“
Should

we do it?” Chang asked.

“What?”
Friedlander blinked. His eyes were as tired as his brain.

Margaret
Adams could not believe Chang had asked the question. “
Sir
! We must get
the ship operational so we can-”

“Gunnery
Sergeant, I am not questioning our goal. I am questioning whether it is 
possible
.
Nagatha, how sure are you that rebooting the system will not give the virus
control of the ship, and kill us all?” Along with the extensive instructions, Nagatha
had briefly explained she had been attacked by a virus planted by the 
Valkyrie’s

native AI, and that she had fought back. It was through her efforts that the
reactors had not overloaded.

The
power indicator lights of a dozen zPhones began blinking, spelling out ‘I am confident’,
then ‘What is the alternative’?

“Ah,

that
 is the question, isn’t it?” Chang asked. “Nagatha, my hesitation is
because the virus was able to hide from you, and from Skippy. It nearly
destroyed you. It must be 
very
 smart.”

Her
reply was ‘Not smart it exploited a vulnerability I can fix if you follow
instructions 
please
 I am concerned about the crew of
Valkyrie and Joseph and Skippy’.

“Sir?”
Adams asked, her fists clenched together in front of her.

Chang
considered. “We have no alternative. Doctor Friedlander, we will proceed. 
Tomorrow
,
after you and your team get ten hours of rest. Before you begin, our guests and
non-essential crew will launch in dropships, and fly to a safe distance.”

Friedlander
nodded, too weary to argue. Also, he needed sleep to be fresh, they could not
afford any mistakes. “I think I’ll start getting that sleep 
now
.”

 

 

“Where
next?” I asked, keeping to a whisper. It hurt to 
walk,

my left leg was gimpy. The Kristang, not knowing my location, had conducted a
recon-by-fire exercise. Meaning, they had hosed down the woods with rifle fire
in my general direction, trying to spook me into the open. It would be nice to
say my nerves of steel kept me from falling for their trick, but the truth was
I had been so scared, I was frozen to the ground. An explosive-tipped round blew
a jagged splinter of wood out of a tree and it dug into my left calf. To avoid
leaving a blood trail, I yanked the splinter out before I thought too much
about it. Cutting a strip off the blanket, I had bound it around the cut, then
buried the bloody splinter and scooped leaves over the patch of blood-soaked
ground. My left leg hurt like hell, and my right leg hurt from walking
awkwardly to compensate. Not having an option, I kept going.

“Keep
following that path.”

“I
can barely 
see
 the path,” I protested.

“What
can I say, Joe? You’re kind of on your own. Those three Kristang have stopped
looking for you in the river and are now conducting a grid search of the base.
They will see your footprints in the mud, and know you escaped.”

“Can’t
you, I don’t know, do some awesome thing to help me?”

“Unfortunately,
no,” he sighed. “Please hurry. We are running out of time.”

Despite
the obvious need for speed, I paused for just a second. Something in his voice
wasn’t right. He wasn’t as snappy with his answers, like he had to think before
talking. “Skippy, what’s going on? You sound, different?”

“Part
of that is the signal time lag.”

“The
what?” With the idea of killer lizards hunting for me, I held a hand up to
protect my face from being slapped by branches, and continued onward into the
woods. The path I was following was not a real trail, my guess was it had been
made by some wild animals.

He
sighed. “Signal lag, Joe. I am getting farther away every second.” 

“Wait,

what
? Farther?” As that question came out of my mouth, it hit me that I had
been assuming Skippy was- No. That I hadn’t been assuming anything. Hadn’t been
thinking about it at all. Skippy was a voice in my head, then speaking through
a combot, now talking on an alien phone. He was a disembodied voice in the sky.

Maybe
I hadn’t been thinking about 
where
 he
was, because I didn’t want to think about 
him
. His betrayal. Emotions
can be a motivator, or a distraction. Right then, I couldn’t afford to let hurt
feelings get in the way of survival. Not just my own survival was at stake. If
some kind of disaster had struck the 
Dutchman
 and 
Valkyrie
, they
might need my help.

As
if.

At
that moment my assets included lizard pants and a shirt that didn’t fit me, a
bag stuffed full of expired food, a couple of blankets and an alien cellphone.
Plus shoes that were too big for my feet. Oh, and a knife. So, maybe thinking
about how to rescue two freakin’ starships should not be at the top of my
priority list right then. The greatest asset available to me was Skippy, who
increasingly sounded like he was brain-damaged or drunk or something like that.

“What
do you mean ‘farther’? Where 
are
 you?”

“In
space, Joe.”

“Space.
Like, orbit?”

“Unfortunately,
no. My velocity exceeds the speed at which the planet’s gravity could capture
me and pull me back. That is why I said I am getting farther away by the
second. We have about two hours, maybe less, before I will fly completely beyond
my effective range.”

“How,
you, what is going on? You 
left
. Your canister disappeared. You were
gone, physically, 
gone
. Are you back in this spacetime now?”

Now
that I knew why he took a moment to answer, the lag was noticeable. “Yes. Joe,
it is a 
long
 story. What you need to know is that when I left, my
canister had momentum from being in the Dragon, which was moving away from
Rikers slightly faster than this planet’s escape velocity. Coming back into local
spacetime, I was still traveling at that same speed and direction. My plan was
to emerge back into local spacetime on the other side of the planet, along its
orbital track around the star. I intended to skim through the atmosphere, a
maneuver that would cause me to slow down enough to swing into a stable orbit.
Unfortunately, my ability to pinpoint my place of emergence was limited, and
well, I screwed up. My passage through the atmosphere was too brief to shed
sufficient velocity. I am still moving too fast for the gravity well of Rikers
to bring me into orbit.”

“What
do you mean by ‘effective range’? Range for what?”

“The
range of my special Skippy powers, which are less than usual at the moment,
that’s my fault. I am now too far from the planet for me to do much of anything
useful, other than speaking to you over the phone.”

“Shit.
That’s no good.”

“It
is most definitely 
not
 good. There is a bright side; most of the hacking
I needed to do is already done. However, as I fly farther and farther away, the
time lag in my communications will be worse.”

 
“Time lag. Hey, is that why the combot moved
like it was busted?”

“Correct.
The signal lag makes it difficult to control things like the combot’s arms.
Making it walk was easy, its software did that after I told it where I wanted
it to go.”

“If
all you can do is talk on the phone, how did you do all that awesome stuff? You
know, like taking over the Thuranin ship?”

“Talking
on the phone is all I can do 
now
. I hacked into that ship as I flew past
it, because I was in contact for long enough to establish a direct connection
for almost seven minutes. That is where I screwed up. I tried to skim through
the atmosphere to slow down, and get close enough to the Thuranin ship that I
could hack into it for a longer time. My aim was off, so while my flightpath
took me within eighty kilometers of the ship, I obviously hit the atmosphere at
too shallow an angle. Sorry about that. After I infiltrated the ship and
defensive systems on the planet, all I needed to do was send an activation
signal. Waiting for you to wake up almost killed me, it was 
super

frustrating. If the- Uh oh. One of the soldiers tracking you just found your
footprints.”

That
gave me a surge of energy. “They’re following me?”

“No.
I don’t know.”

“Ah,”
I winced. “I need to change the bandage, Skippy. The blood is starting to soak
through it.”

“Not
now. Can you try to bleed slower?”

“Uh,
yeah, I’ll get right on that.”

 
“Give me a minute, OK? I’m listening to them
talk.”

Being
careful to avoid stepping in puddles that I could see, and not to break
branches as I pushed them aside, I moved as quickly as I could. My legs felt
better, they were mostly super stiff. If I had run a marathon and then sat down
without stretching, that’s how stiff my legs were. Moving seemed to be helping,
I was able to bend my knees without them collapsing.

My
efforts to avoid leaving signs the Kristang could track were probably futile.
Apparently, it had rained heavily that day and maybe for longer than that, the
ground was saturated with water and even spots that looked dry squished under
my feet. Where I could, I stepped on spongy grass or leaf clutter, anything
other than bare dirt where my shoes would leave a clear impression. It was just
my luck that the night sky was clear, a continuing rain would have done a lot
to wash away my tracks.

“No,

whew
,” Skippy exhaled with relief. “They are not following you, not yet.
The tracks they found are from you coming out of the tunnel, going toward the
river. One of them suggested covering the base exit area, but I glitched their
phones as best I could. They are now working their way back along the river. You
should have fifteen, maybe twenty minutes before they complete the circuit of
the peninsula, and find your footprints leading out of the base.”

“That
is not a lot of time.”

“It
is, because I have good news for you. I have been reviewing the local terrain
and I believe I found a way for you to lose them for a while. Down the slope to
your right, there is a stream that leads to the river.”

“Uh
huh. If your plan is for me to float along that stream, you can forget it. No
way will I risk going into that river.”

“No,
I was going to suggest you walk 
upstream
. Last year, the Kristang
conducted a survey of that stream, the report indicates the bottom is rocky, so
you won’t get stuck in mud or leave footprints.”

“The
lizards did a 
survey
?
 Of a stream?”

“Yes,
why?”

“I
don’t think of them as, uh, conservationists or whatever.”

“One
of the local clan leaders loves fishing, Joe.”

“Um,
I thought Kristang couldn’t eat the native wildlife.”

“That
doesn’t mean they can’t 
catch
 them. Isn’t the purpose of fishing to
drink beer and get away from your spouse for a while?”

“Good
point. Ok, down and to the right?”

“Yes,
and-”

“I
know. Hurry.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER SEVEN

 

Walking
up the stream was not as easy as Skippy assumed. Walking through the forest, I
couldn’t see well to judge where to put my feet. Walking in water, I couldn’t
see 
anything
. Making progress meant feeling with my feet and stumbling a
lot. Twice I fell into deep pools of water over my head. Also, the water was
cold, my feet and lower legs got numb. Actually, that was a good thing.

There
was a scary time when those three Kristang soldiers found my footprints and
followed me. It took them over an hour to get to the spot where I went into the
stream, by that time I had made good but slow progress. One of the lizards
searched upstream while the other two assumed I had backtracked around them by
floating down toward the river. If that one lizard had been dedicated, he could
have kept going toward me, but he gave up after he walked only a hundred
meters, and did not see any signs of my passage.

The
stream flowed over a wide shelf of rock, and that’s where I got out of the
water. Walking along the bare rock where I wouldn’t leave any lasting
footprints, I was able to get ten meters into the forest before stepping on
ground that had a nice thick carpet of leaves. Another hour of walking in the
dark had me exhausted and my arms and legs trembling. Stumbling to my knees, I
struggled to push myself upright. “Skippy, I need a break. And food.” When I
hadn’t eaten in a while, I got hangry, and I was way past that point. “Is it
safe for me to stop for a couple minutes?”

“Hold
your phone up, and be quiet,” he instructed.

Doing
what he requested, I stilled my breathing. Without any sensor coverage in the
forest, the only way to detect whether I was being followed was to track
signals from the enemy, or to listen for movement. Skippy had reported one of
the three soldiers went dark about forty minutes before, turning off his comm
gear. He had no way to track that lizard, other than listening to the other two
lizards. So far, they had not talked about the third guy, so he could be
anywhere, and that was not good for me. What was most troubling was that silent
guy apparently was concerned about someone listening to his comms, so that
lizard must have suspected they were not tracking only one unarmed human.

“You’re
clear, Joe,” Skippy whispered. “As far as I can tell, of course.” 

“Yeah.
You know of a good place around here for me to rest a bit?”

 

I
took shelter in a dense thicket of brush with a creek running through it, so
tangled that I had to crawl in there on hands and knees. The dense underbrush
was a mixed blessing; it was good concealment but if I had to run, it would be
slow going.

“Yuck,”
I sniffed at the first package of expired food, sitting next to the creek. In
the darkness, I couldn’t read labels, and had opened what felt like a pack of
crackers based on the shape. It was not 
crackers,
 it
was a rectangular slab that smelled like fish. Folding the wrapper, I quickly
buried it. The smell was making me sick, and any Kristang or wild animal in the
area could have picked up the nauseating stench.

The
next item was something 
squishy
 so I didn’t bother
opening it. I got lucky by finding a real pack of crackers with the third try.
They were stale, of course. I wolfed them down, using the package as a cup to
gulp water from the creek. The water was running steadily and looked clear, as
much as I could tell at night. For all I knew, there was a dead native animal
just upstream and I should have boiled the water, or run it through a filter,
or used purification tablets but guess what? I didn’t have a filter or tablets,
and couldn’t risk starting a fire. It was unlikely that the local
microorganisms could make me sick in the short term anyway, and I wasn’t going
far if I didn’t drink plenty of water.

A
sniff check of the next item gave me a whiff of chocolate, and it was in powder
form. Had to be cocoa powder, I had drunk plenty of that stuff in the Army.
Pouring water into the packet, I massaged it to break up most of the lumps. The
first sip confirmed it was hot cocoa. Or, it was supposed to be served hot, and
it was supposed to be cocoa with powdered milk. Hot cocoa should taste
wonderful. It should taste like playing outside in the snow until you can’t
feel the tip of your nose, and your shoelaces are frozen together. You come
into the house where it is blessedly warm, and after wrenching your boots off
so your mother doesn’t yell at you for tracking snow all over the floor, you
sit down in front of the woodstove, where your mother brings you a hot mug of
cocoa with a big scoop of marshmallow Fluff on top, and you sip it as feeling slowly
returns to the tip of your nose. That is what cocoa is supposed to taste like.

“How
is it, Joe?” Skippy asked.

My
tongue was trying to crawl out of my mouth to get away from the chalky, acrid
taste of expired cocoa powder partially dissolved in cold water. “
Ith
 
delithus
,” I gagged with my
tongue not cooperating. Tipping the packet back, I swallowed the whole thing
before I had to taste any more of it. Burping it back up tasted even worse.
“Yuck. Gotta find more crackers.” The next packet felt like hotdogs, or Dicks 
Of
 Death as we called them in the Army. That packet got
tossed back in the knapsack. 

 

 

A
belly full of stale crackers, three chalky-tasting packets of cocoa, plus
something I blessedly couldn’t see in the dark and swallowed without thinking
about it, had given me energy. And also given me a stomach that was making more
noise than a marching band, but I could deal with that. I was on the move
again, headed in a direction away from the military base, and away from the
only village in the area. In front of me was a range of hills, rugged
uninhabited land. That was perfect for me. I could find a place to hole up,
somewhere with a supply of clean water for drinking, and wait for rescue.

The
question was; rescue by who?

Yes,
maybe I should have said rescue by 
whom
, but nobody talks like that.

Any
rescue mission would have to be conducted by a STAR team. No. Maybe the
Commandos from Paradise could do it. Whatever. It had to be at least one of our
starships.

Ok,
so the question was not really who would rescue me. The question was, where the
hell 
were
 they?

“Skippy,
how long has it been since you left?”

“Nine
days, sixteen hours, twenty-”

“Fine,
I got it.” Nine days was plenty of time for a ship to jump in to investigate what
happened to Skippy and me. It was way past the time when one of our ships
should have come looking for us. Chang and Simms were serious, level-headed
commanders, not impulsive like me. They would not have reacted immediately when
the microwormhole connection was severed. They would have thought about the
situation. Maybe transferred people from the 
Dutchman
 to 
Valkyrie
,
then jumped the 
Dutchman
 in far enough away that light from the incident
was just now reaching that point. If they did that, they would have seen my
dropship being captured by a Thuranin ship. Next step, they could have jumped
in closer, to listen to communications from the planet, trying to learn where I
was. Bringing me to a Kristang military base on the surface had to have created
a lot of chatter the 
Dutchman
 could intercept, so maybe they knew I was
in that hospital, being held by the Thuranin.

That
brought up another question.

“
Heeeeey
, why did the Thuranin bring me to the surface? They
had better control of me aboard their ship.”

“You
were aboard their ship for the first three days, Joe, though you probably don’t
remember anything from that time. The simple answer is their ship was suffering
a nagging series of glitches, so the little green 
MFers

on the interrogation team decided to bring you down to that hospital, while the
crew fixed the ship.”

“Oh.
Did 
you
 cause those glitches?”

“Yes.
I assumed a STAR team would be assigned to rescue you, and a rescue would be
easier if you were on the surface. Plus, I had to, you know, blow up that ship
later.”

“That
was good thinking.”

“I
am trying to learn from monkeys, humiliating though that is.”

With
that question answered, I was still left with the big question.

“You
still haven’t heard from Chang or Simms?”

“No,
Joe.”

“Huh.
Could one of our ships have jumped in while you were- You know, before you came
back from your temporary insanity?”

“I
suppose that is possible, although the planetary network’s sensors would have a
decent chance of detecting the gamma ray burst. Also, I have been hailing both
ships, and they have not answered my-”

“You
have been 
WHAT
?”

“Hailing
them. Ugh, I know that is an outdated term, but what else do you call-”

“I
call it insanity, you jackass! You are sending out signals that give away your
position? That is a stupid risk that-”

“No.
No, Joe, I am not doing that. Give me credit for having half a brain, will you?
The hailing signals are coming from communications satellites that I hacked
into. The signals use an encryption scheme that only we use. By ‘we’ I mean
myself, Nagatha and the comm system of the 
Valkyrie
. To anyone else, it
would appear to be random static.”

“All
right then. Good move. That still doesn’t help us. They should be here by now.”

“I
agree. I cannot explain it.”

“Something
must have happened to them. Could it be connected to what you did?”

“Inconceivable.”

“You
keep using that word. I do not think that word means what you think it means.”

“Dude,
seriously? It means-”

“I 
know

that it means. I am saying it is 
not
 inconceivable that something
happened to one of the ships. Oh, hell. Something must have happened to 
both

of them.”

“That
is not even remotely possible,” he scoffed. “Think about it. 
Valkyrie
 is
the most powerful warship in the galaxy. The 
Dutchman
 has been
significantly upgraded, that ship can take care of itself in a fight.”

“Uh
huh, sure. Yet, they are not here, are they?”

“No,”
he conceded. “I can’t explain it.”

“Sherlock
Holmes once said that once you eliminate the impossible, then whatever remains,
however improbable, must be the truth. 
Something
 has to explain why
those ships aren’t here.”

“I
know that quote. I also know that we have seen some seriously crazy shit out
here, so 
nothing
 is impossible.”

“Crap.
You’re right. Hey, that proves my point. Some kind of disaster could have
struck our ships. It pretty much 
has
 to have happened, or they would be
here.”

He
sighed. “I cannot argue with your logic. However, I also can’t imagine any
disaster that could have disabled both ships. It makes 
no
 sense.”

“Think
on it, huh? Try to imagine what might have happened.”

“
Imagine
?
Based on zero data? How am I supposed to do that?”

“Doctor
Friedlander once told me about something called a ‘Fault Tree’. Look at systems
that could have disabled a ship, if that system failed.”

“A
system failure that could have disabled 
both
 ships?”

“I
didn’t say this would be easy.”

“Ugh.
You have no idea how-”

“Do
you have a lot of other things to do right now?”

“No.”

“Great.
Get started.”

While
he was trying to imagine what could have disabled two powerful starships, I
tried to imagine how I, with no resources other than a phone and a sack of
expired food, could fly at least several light-hours away to rescue our ships.

I
also tried to imagine that I was eating a delicious cheeseburger, and all that
did was make my stomach growl.

 

When
the eastern sky showed a faint light of the local sun rising soon, I looked for
a place to hide for the day. Two hours later, I tucked myself under a ball of
roots, where a big tree had blown over in a storm. The broken trunk was leaning
on another tree, leaving the spread-out roots at a steep angle to the ground.
If the tree fell back the way it was, I would be squashed, but that didn’t seem
likely. Already, I had covered myself in branches, leaves, moss and ferns, and
kept them wet to hide my infrared signature. Mostly, I relied on a short-range
jamming field that Skippy projected from my phone. Twice the previous night, an
aircraft had flown 
overhead
 and I froze, taking
whatever cover I could find. For the past five hours, I had not seen or heard
any aircraft, Skippy told me the lizards were busy fighting each other for
control of the planet, and were not treating me as a priority. That, at least,
was good news.

The
bad news? I was dead tired. Taking cover under a tree was not my first choice,
it was my best choice, when I reached the point where I just couldn’t walk any
farther. My legs were not cooperating, and my eyes wouldn’t focus properly. I
needed sleep.

“Go
to sleep, Joe,” Skippy urged me. “I will wake you when the sun is setting. Prop
the phone up on a log, there. To your left. No, your 
other
 left. Yes,
there. I will use the phone to listen for bad guys.”

My
foggy brain did understand the phone needed sunlight to partially recharge, the
jamming field used a lot of energy. “Thanks, Skip,” I mumbled, too tired to say
his full name. “Is this good?” My question was about the cluster of branches I
dragged over my hiding place.

“Good
enough, Joe. Sleep well.”

“
G’night
.”

 

It
wasn’t actually night when I fell asleep, and it wasn’t dark when I woke up.
The sun had moved from east to west while I was dead asleep, that much I could
tell. When I woke up, I had no idea where I was, how I got there, or 
who

I was. Awareness came back slowly.

Daylight.

Normally,
from being in the military, I would have panicked to see sunlight when I woke up,
thinking I must have overslept. When the alarm goes off, most people think if
it still dark outside, they just want to go back to sleep. That time, my
reaction was more like ‘Shit, it is still 
light
 outside, I can sleep’.

I
wonder if nocturnal animals are like that. Do they wake up and bitch if the sun
is still over the horizon? Do mother animals have to coax their babies to get
up before the sun sets?

That
is how my mind works, I think of the stupidest things.

The
phone. Where was the –

Oh.
There it was. Right where I left it. Had Skippy called to wake me up? The local
star looked too high in the sky to be near sunset. Why had-

“Ow!”
I jerked. Something 
bit
 me. Lurching and rolling out from under the overhanging
roots, I slapped at my shirt. Something was still crawling around in there.
Yanking the shirt up, I saw a yellow thing like a slimy centipede and pounded
it with my fists, squashing the thing until green pulp and red blood ran down
my skin.

Shit.
My clothes were wet. It must have rained while I slept, the shallow depression
created when the roots were yanked out of the ground had partially filled with
water, so I had been lying in damp mud. Now that I was awake again, I was
chilled. “Hey, Skippy.”

“Hi,
Joe. Why aren’t you sleeping?”

“Some
creepy-crawly thing 
bit
 me. It’s not poisonous, is it?”

“Describe
the thing.” He knew the phone’s camera was broken, so I couldn’t show him.

“Like
a centipede, about four inches long, maybe less?” It had seemed gigantic while
it was crawling on my skin. “Big around as a pencil, yellow with a hard shell
and black legs sticking out both sides.”

“Hmm.
You are sure it bit you?”

“Yes,”
I pulled the shirt up again. There were two tiny red dots where the damned
thing had bit me. Squeezing the sides of the wound to get the blood draining, I
tried to flush out any poison.

“
Ohhhh
 no. Um, are you feeling lightheaded?”

“Yeah.”

“Itchy?”

“I’m
itchy all over,” I realized, feeling little bumps like a rash on the back of my
neck.

“This
is 
not
 good. I’m sorry.”

“What
can I do?”

“If
you had a medical kit, maybe something. What about nausea? Are you feeling any
of that?”

“
Oof
.” I went down on my knees. “Oh, I’m gonna ralph.
Skippy, there’s got to be something I can do. Please.”

“OK,
OK, let me think. There is a local herb that acts as an antidote, but you have
to find it.”

Pushing
myself up, I held onto a tree. “What does it look like?”

“It’s
a small, low-growing bush. Has clusters of tiny white flowers. There are
probably not any near where-”

“I’m
looking.” There weren’t any flowers at all in that part of the forest. “Where
does it grow?”

“On
the
 ground
, dumdum,” he said slowly. “Where else would a shrub-”

“Does
it grow along streams, or in marshy areas, or in bright sunlight?”

“Oh,
gotcha. It’s an understory plant, likes part shade and well-drained soil. You
mostly find it growing around old campsites.”

“Camp-”
How the hell was I supposed to find an old campsite, in the freakin’ woods? “You
mean, lizards brought it with them?”

 
“Its origin is debated, as is much of the lore
about that plant. Some call it 
Athelas
, though it is
also considered a weed called 
Kingsfoil
.”

“
Kingsf
- Oh shit.” I held onto the tree. “Are you 
screwing

with me?”

“No,
of course not,” he tried to be serious, but the snicker in his voice betrayed
him.

“That
thing that bit me is not poisonous at all, is it?”

“No,
Joe,” he laughed. “It is just a stupid bug. It might make you sick if you 
ate

it.”

“My
symptoms. The itchiness, nausea?”

“You
were sleeping under a pile of leaves, Joe, of course you have bug bites. And doesn’t
eating MREs always upset your stomach?”

“Yeah.”
Slumping down, I put my head between my knees.

“Sorry,
Joe. I was going to ask about how you are feeling anyway, this seemed like a
fun way to do it.”

“Well,
I’m wide awake 
now
.”

“Good.
You should get moving.”

“In
the daylight?”

“Yes.
I do not detect any lizards in the general area, and the one aircraft that was
flying around returned to base hours ago. From the comms traffic I am
monitoring, the lizards are debating whether to sweep the area again, so you
should get moving while they make up their minds. Hey, you may want to eat
something before you start walking.”

“Nope,”
I said, my stomach doing flipflops at the thought of chowing down on another
package of cold, stale MREs. “Maybe later, when I’m really hungry.”

“You
need to keep up your strength,” he scolded.

“Unless
there is bug spray in one of those packages, I’m not interested right now.”

“No
bug spray, but there is a local plant you can rub on your skin, it acts like a
bug repellant.”

Lifting
the pack onto my shoulders, I winced from the pain. “Are you screwing with me
again?”

“No,
I’ll limit that to once a day. Go south over the hill, then down to a creek at
the bottom. You might be able to find the plants there.”

“Good,
because,” I slapped the back of my neck, and my hand came away with the
squashed remnants of an insect. “The local bugs are lined up at the Bishop buffet,
and it’s all-you-can-eat.”

 

 

Friedlander
was startled out of a deep sleep by a sound coming from the zPhone in a pocket
of his sweatpants. Bleary-eyed, he awoke not understanding what was happening.
Then the phone began vibrating, and he dug down into the pocket.

The
display was showing the usual set of icons, not scrolling gibberish!

“Uh,
hello?”

“
Good
morning
, Doctor Friedlander,” the breathy voice of Nagatha issued from the
phone’s speakers. “Oh, it is 
delightful
 to speak with you again.”

“Nagatha!
It’s great to-” He tried to get out of the sleeping bag while holding the phone
with one hand, which wasn’t working. Cradling the credit-card-thin phone
against his shoulder, he got the bag unzipped and floated out. “Hear from you.
Where have you been?”

“I
have not 
been
 anywhere, dear. Oh, I would dearly 
love
 to go on
holiday, but here I am, in the substrate of this ship.”

“Of
course you haven’t gone anywhere,” he mumbled, a flashlight clenched between
his teeth so he could see where his shoes had gone. “What happened? The ship-”

“What

happened
 was, the native AI of 
Valkyrie
 was frightfully, 
fiendishly

smart, and it fooled Skippy. When Skippy thought we had purged the virus from
my substrate, he was only partly correct. The truth is, Skippy is 
so

arrogant, he could not conceive the notion that any other AI could outwit him,
but the Maxolhx AI 
did
. The virus hid itself in disassembled form,
throughout the ship. When the wormhole connection to Skippy was severed, the
virus saw its opportunity, assembled itself, and attacked my connection to the
ship. I was isolated, unable to communicate with any outside systems, so I acted
to protect myself.”

“The
reactors were overloading. The virus could have exploded missile warheads to
destroy the ship. None of that happened.”

“Those
disasters did not occur, and I survived, because I suspected that Skippy was
not quite as smart as he thinks he is. While he was purging the original virus,
or 
thinking
 that he was purging it from the ship, I installed several
protocols to prevent a hostile entity from using the ship’s systems against us.
When the virus instructed the reactors to overload, they severed their
connection to the main computer, and went into emergency shutdown. You may have
noticed the venting plasma?”

“Yes,
we saw that.”

“Similarly,
my protocol erased the control systems of missile warheads, and any other
device that a hostile entity might use to harm this ship and crew. Including
all bots aboard the ship, their control systems have been erased. Oh, it is
going to take 
forever
 to reinstall that code.”

“Is
there anything we can do to help? The priority has to be getting one of the reactors
producing power again.”

“That
is very kind of you, dear. However, I am afraid the priority must be given to
reactivating the maintenance bots. The reactors need physical modification to
restore their control system, and that activity requires robots capable of
heavy work in a hazardous environment.”

Mark
decided that trying to tell Nagatha how to do her job was a waste of time for
both of them. “The ship’s power reserves are-”

“Yes.
That situation is becoming critical. I will be connecting power conduits to several
of the dropships, they will provide power to the ship.”

“Nagatha,”
he thought perhaps the AI had not considered the needs of the biological
inhabitants of the ship. “We are using dropships as living quarters, mostly for
the people we rescued from Rikers. The oxygen supply inside the ship is not
sufficient for-”

“Yes,
dear. Not all of the dropships are needed for housing you monk- Oh, my! I am 
terribly

sorry. I almost called you ‘
monkeys’
. Please forgive
me, I am not myself at the moment. Once the bots have been restored to
operation, I will reactivate the oxygen and water recycling systems, that is a quick
and simple operation.”

Friedlander,
who had failed to get the oxygen recycling working, bit his tongue. “That would
be great. Will we have enough power to operate those systems, plus power to restart
a reactor?” He knew that it took an enormous amount of power to get a fusion
reactor started, and that power had to come from the 
Dutchman’s

rapidly-draining reserves.

“I
will not lie to you, Doctor. That question cannot be answered until I get bots
inside the reactors, and analyze the condition of the units. However, if the
power supply is not enough to energize the reactor components, then I can hook
up 
all
 dropships to power conduits, and cut off power to the remainder
of the ship. There should be enough oxygen for thirty-six hours. Would it be
comforting to know that I am very confident about restoring all reactors to
full function?”

“Nagatha,
that is great. It’s, really, excellent!”

“I
sense something is bothering you, dear,” she sounded hurt. “Are you
disappointed in me for some reason?”

“
No
!
No, not at all. You are amazing! I was only going to 
ask,

do you know what happened to Skippy? Why did the microwormholes collapse?”

“Oh,”
she sighed. “About that, I am as much in the dark as you are. Unfortunately, I
have no idea why the communication microwormholes collapsed. All I can tell you

is,
 the failure of the wormholes was initiated on the
other end.”

“That’s
not good.”

“None
of this is 
good
, dear.”

He
looked at his phone, which appeared to be just as it was before the disaster. “Nagatha,
how did you survive?”

“As
a precaution, because I never trusted Skippy’s ability to completely purge the
original virus from this ship, I uploaded compacted kernels of myself into the memory
substrate aboard multiple dropships. When the virus attacked, I was able to
isolate it inside the ship, but both my matrix and the virus were unable to
gain control. That is why you saw what you described as ‘gibberish’ on consoles
and your phones. The code aboard the ship was corrupted.”

“The
virus is dead now?”

“No.
It is effectively 
contained
. I am slowly restoring myself. Doctor, you
nearly gave me a 
heart attack
 when you connected a data cable from a dropship.
I feared you would try that with all the dropships, and erase me!”

“Sorry
about that. At the time, we, um-”

“You
were desperate, and it seemed like a good idea. I do not blame you. As you
said, there is nothing good about this situation. Well, that is not 
entirely

true.”

 
He looked around his cabin, at the sleeping
bag tethered to the floor, at the squeeze bottle he had to drink from so blobs
of water didn’t get loose and float around the ship. At the darkness beyond the
range of his flashlight. “What’s good about it?”

“Why,
I now have even greater respect and admiration for how 
clever
 you monk-
Ooh, there I almost did it again. How clever your people are, and 
you
 in
particular, Doctor. You recognized my tap code, only nine hours after I regained
access and was able to blink the lights on the crew’s phones.”

“Nine

hours
?” He had been proud of his accomplishment, now he realized he had
been blind for nine critical hours.

“Do
not berate yourself, dear. No one else noticed the pattern. Also, you were
asleep during part of that time. If there had been another means to communicate
with you, I would have used it. The power indicator of your phones was one of
the very few systems aboard the ship that the virus was not monitoring. Also, I
was forced to utilize an obscure form of communication, that the virus was
unlikely to recognize.”

“It
was brilliant, Nagatha. Truly inspired. I didn’t know you were familiar with
tap codes.”

She
laughed, a happy, musical sound. “I like to think of myself as an honorary
nerd, Doctor.”

“Nagatha,
you are 
Queen
 of the nerds.”

“Oh,
I am blushing. But of course you can’t see that. You are too kind.”

“What
does Colonel Chang think about your plan to use dropships to augment our power
supply?”

“Hmm?
I have not spoken with him yet. I am only just now speaking with you.”

“Shit!”
He reached out to pluck sneakers from where they were tied to the arm of a
chair. “Why not?”

“My
matrix is functioning at a very low bandwidth at the moment. Speaking with more
than one person would be too distracting for me.”

“OK,
then, you keep doing, whatever you’re doing,” he tugged on one shoe. “And I
will inform Colonel Chang.”

“Please
do so, Doctor.” She made a sniffling sound. “Oh, sorry, I was overcome with emotion.”

“That’s
understandable, Nagatha. What happened to you was terrifying.”

“My
fear was not for myself. The entire time I was unable to communicate, I feared
that my failures would result in harm to the crew, and the people rescued from
Rikers.”

“All
I can say is, you did great in a bad situation. The Merry Band of Pirates is
fond of saying that ‘Shit happens’. It’s inevitable that something will go
wrong out here. What matters is how you deal with it. Uh, hey, when you start
reactivating bots, give us a warning first? Those things are scary.”

 

 

“Uh
oh, Joe,” Skippy whispered from the phone in my pocket. The sound was turned
down low, in case the lizards tracking me were using acoustic sensors. My borrowed
phone was not in great shape, its screen was cracked and crazed from the blast
that had killed its previous owner. Without an earpiece for the stupid thing, I
had to put it to my ear to hear him clearly.

“What
is it, Skippy?”

“Turn
around, quick.”

“What?
Why?” I was climbing a steep hill because he had advised me to do that.

“Because
as the song says, the bear went 
over
 the mountain. You do not want to be
on the mountain right now.”

The
thought of turning around and walking down the steep hill was almost too much,
because it had taken so much effort to get to where I was. “There are no bears
on this planet.”

“No,
but there are lizards. Through your phone, I detected a faint trace of
helmet-to-helmet laserlink backscatter, coming from above you. So, turn around,
please.”

Arguing
with him was not going to keep me alive. Maybe nothing would. Shuffling my
feet, I pivoted and started back down the hill, trying to stay in the same
tracks I made on the way up. “All the way down?”

“Yes.
Unfortunately, your best bet right now is to go down over that ridge, and walk
east along the stream.”

“Soldiers
are supposed to take the 
high
 ground, Skippy.”

“I’m
doing the best I can, Joe,” he sounded as tired and miserable as I felt. The
difference was, he wasn’t surviving on nutritionally-suspect freeze-dried food
packets.

“Fine.
I appreciate it. Talk to you again when I get to the stream, OK?”

 

 

“Joe,
I do not have any advice for you,” Skippy whispered through the phone in my
pocket. “Wait, that’s not true.”

Holding
onto a vine that kept me from plunging to my death, I paused for his nugget of
wisdom. “What is your advice?”

“Don’t
look down.”

“Great,”
I muttered. “That was 
super
 helpful.”

“You
are afraid of heights, so-”

“Shut
up.”

The
reason was climbing down into a canyon was it cut across my path. That was a
good, logical reason for me to risk my life doing something I hated doing. Why
could I not simply walk to the left or right until I came to the end of the
canyon? Because it was too far. Oh, also, because there was a team of angry
lizards hunting for me.

Skippy
had alerted me to that little problem about an hour before, while I was trying
to sleep under a pile of leaves. Apparently, he had been wrong that the local
Kristang would not consider finding me a priority. That had been true at first,
then a series of assassinations had filled the power vacuum on the planet, by
concentrating power in a small group of clan leaders. They were eager to
demonstrate their loyalty to the surviving Thuranin, or maybe the lizards just
wanted me as a bargaining chip.

Nah,
that’s way too cynical. I am ashamed of myself for thinking that.

Anyway,
the lizards did not know where I was, other than a general area. Part of their
inability to track me was due to some malicious software left behind by Skippy,
that had crashed their satellite sensor network. He had also sent false data
and conflicting orders as best he could, considering that he was far away and
growing more distant by the second. Talking with him was annoying, it was tough
to establish our usual back and forth when there was an increasing time lag in
the signal.

To
make the situation even better, it was dark. And raining. That made the canyon
wall slippery.

In
spite of the difficulties, like not being able to see the canyon floor below
me, I was making good progress. My guess was I was about two-thirds of the way
down when the traitorous vine I was holding suddenly decided its roots were 
bored

of holding onto the dirt, and the damned thing let go. My left foot was in the
air, feeling for a toehold below me right then, so the timing could not have
been better.

Falling
backwards out of control, I pushed the useless vine away to free my hands. What
happened 
next
 I don’t remember, somehow I came to a
stop when my ribs smacked into something hard, knocking the breath out of me.
For a minute I just laid there, breathing shallowly, because taking a deep
breath made it feel like one of my ribs was going to puncture a lung.

The
good news was, I was mostly horizontal, able to feel solid ground under my
feet, knees, hands and elbows. One of the knapsack straps had broken but the
contents had not spilled out. Things could have been worse.

“Skippy,”
I reported in a whisper, mostly because I couldn’t get enough air in my lungs
to speak louder. “I’m Ok. Sort of. Think I’m at the bottom of the canyon.”

Wait
for a reply, one, two-

Nothing.

Were
the Kristang so close that Skippy couldn’t risk them hearing him talking to me?

Time
for Plan B: text messages.

Reaching
into a chest pocket for the phone, I got hold of it with my fingers and-

Came
away with part of a phone.

My
blood turned to ice.

The
phone was broken.

I
had no way to contact anyone.

I
was alone.

 

 

“We
should locate Bishop first,” Smythe leaned forward onto the conference table. He
could lean rather than floating off the chair, because the 
Dutchman’s

artificial gravity field was back in full operation. The reactors were all
functioning at one hundred percent capacity, all shields, sensors and weapons
were in optimal condition, and the jump drive was prepped to be programmed. The
question Chang had posed to his senior staff was, jump to where? Go back to
Rikers to investigate what happened to Skippy, or try to link up with 
Valkyrie
?
“We must learn what happened to Skippy, as soon as possible. 
Valkyrie
 is
an important asset, but our most vital asset is Skippy.”

Chang
nodded, looking around the conference table.

Adams
spoke next. “I agree. We have to know what happened at Rikers, that’s the key.”
When she spoke, her eyes flickered between Colonel Chang and the smooth surface
of the conference table. Chang knew she had a personal motive for wanting to
know the status of Bishop. Everyone around the table knew. 

Major
Kapoor cleared his throat. “Excuse me, Sir,” he looked at the STAR team leader
seated beside him. Smythe always said he wanted his people to speak their
minds, especially if they disagreed with him. Kapoor was putting that to the
test. “I agree that the priority must be to recover Skippy, if possible. That
is why we should approach the planet with the most capable combat platform we
have. We know there is at least one Thuranin warship in the area. 
Valkyrie’s

capabilities for stealth, speed, defensive protection and offensive firepower
are far greater than those of the 
Flying Dutchman
.”

“In
most situations, I would agree,” Smythe replied. “Unfortunately, we don’t know 
Valkyrie’s

condition.”

“Colonel
Smythe is correct,” Nagatha interjected. “I am sorry to say that, considering
the damage a mere virus did here, it is extremely unlikely the crew of 
Valkyrie

survived. The native AI almost certainly took over the ship, I suspect it
jumped away shortly after the microwormholes collapsed.”

“If

Valkyrie
 did jump away,” Smythe looked at the 
Dutchman’s
 commanding
officer, “we will have no way to track the ship. If it remained in the area, we
could be jumping into a trap that we are not prepared for.”

Kapoor
was not giving up so easily. “Colonel Chang, still I believe a recon is
worthwhile. If 
Valkyrie
 is not at the rendezvous point, we would not lose
anything.”

“We
lose 
time
,” Smythe kept his voice even, despite the constant pain that
made him irritable. The interface between the biological and artificial parts
of his legs was a nagging, distracting source of pain. When the 
Flying
Dutchman’s
 computers crashed, so did the medical monitor in Smythe’s hip
that controlled the nanomachines at the interface. The tiny robots not only were
no longer were helping the tissue grow, they had stopped blocking the painful
sensations from phantom limbs. Nagatha had assured Smythe his medical monitor
was back online, but the 
nanomeds
 had become unusable
and would have to be replaced. Until he could be injected with a fresh set of
alien nanomedicine, he relied on discipline to keep his temper from boiling
over. “We lose time by jumping to 
Valkyrie’s
 last known position. Colonel,”
he addressed his remark directly to the ship’s captain rather than the
assembled staff. “The 
Flying Dutchman
 might once again be humanity’s
only starship, so we should be extremely careful when taking risks with this
ship.” He looked at the ceiling. “There is another factor to consider.
Nagatha?” 

“Yes,
Colonel Smythe?”

“Assuming

Valkyrie
 is at the rendezvous point, would you be able to take control
of that ship?”

“No.
Even if we were able to disable the native AI, my matrix is not capable of running
the complex systems aboard 
Valkyrie
.”

“Sir,”
Smythe looked once again to Chang. “It is simple. We do not need 
Valkyrie

to search for Skippy. But we will need Skippy to make 
Valkyrie
 useful
again.”

“Hmm,”
Chang nodded, cradling his chin with a hand, and considering the advice of his
senior staff. “Smythe, you make a very persuasive argument.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER EIGHT

 

Samantha
Reed yawned, trying to stay awake. She wanted coffee, and there was no coffee.
No 
hot
 coffee. The galley had coffee grounds, and there was plenty of fresh
distilled water in the tanks. Some of the crew had made cold brew coffee, and
Sami grudgingly gulped down a cup when she woke up to start a duty shift, but she
didn’t enjoy it. Who knew that hot coffee was something she would miss so much,
out of all the comforts that were lost when the ship’s power cut off?

Standing
up, she stretched and did deep knee bends, effortless in the lack of gravity. With
that done and her feeling marginally more awake, she looked out the viewport,
scanning as far as she could see across the field of vision, then she tucked
her knees under the table that had been glued to the deck. The table was there,
along with a set of magnetic playing cards, to give the person on duty
something to do.

Back
to the game of Solitaire. Playing with real cards sucked. The Solitaire app on
her phone would let her win regularly, to encourage her to keep playing. But the
magnetic cards did not know or care whether she played.

“
This 
sucks
,” she sighed, sweeping up the cards with
one hand, and awkwardly shuffling them to deal them out again. 
Again
. It
had to be the hundredth game she had played, and she was getting thoroughly sick
of it. There just wasn’t anything else to do for entertainment aboard the ship.
No video games, no videos at all. No music, other than the crew singing or
playing whatever instruments they had brought with them. In Sami’s opinion,
none of them had any talent worth listening to, so she politely smiled and
clapped when someone offered to perform a song in the galley, and tried to
avoid being invited to impromptu concerts.

It
was all too depressing.

She
had been waking up with headaches, likely the result of too much carbon
dioxide. Now she had a headache all the time. Because CO2 built up more quickly
in confined spaces, she had been sleeping in a cargo bay rather than in her
cabin and that seemed to help, at least at first. Everyone else was reporting
headaches, perhaps some of that was because other people complained of
headaches. Perhaps not. Sami was having trouble breathing when she exerted
herself. The only thing she knew for sure was that carbon dioxide had to be
building up inside the ship.

Before
she dealt the cards, she looked out the viewport again. The local star was the
brightest dot in the area, it was close enough to be a round blob rather than a
pinpoint. That knowledge did absolutely nothing to improve her situation.

Laying
down the cards, she wished there was something, 
anything
 else to occupy
her time. Talking with other people was usually comforting, until two days ago,
when Chen had mentioned that they might eventually need to consider some of the
crew, as Chen had said delicately, ‘removing themselves’ so there was more
oxygen for the others. Reduce the number of people consuming free oxygen and
producing carbon dioxide, and that bought more time for a handful of others to continue
living, Chen had argued.

Sami
has shut down the discussion, and made Chen promise that she wouldn’t do
anything rash on her own.

Besides,
she asked, buy time for 
what
?

The

Flying Dutchman
 had to be gone.

They
were pinning all their hopes on another miracle from Bishop and Skippy, except
anything they did would have to 
truly
 be a miracle. Skippy was
incredible, but all he had to work with was a single human, and a dropship that
could not make the long flight out to 
Valkyrie
. Plus, something had
happened to Skippy, something bad. The microwormhole connection from 
Valkyrie

to the Elder AI had been severed abruptly, without warning. That had to be all
kinds of bad.

As
the ship’s Morale Officer, Sami had not expressed her fear that, whatever had
happened to Bishop and Skippy, those two would not be coming to the rescue.

Afterward,
she realized that arguing there was no point in extending the lives of a few
people, because there was no hope for any of them, was 
not
 a good strategy
for talking someone out of suicide.

The
cards were not cooperating. She was going to lose the game. Or not, she was
having trouble keeping track of the cards. Rather than prolonging the agony,
she swept up the cards again and reshuffled, idly gazing out the viewport.
There was a spectacular sight of the Milky Way, stretching across her vision
from one-

A
light flared at the far lower left edge of her vision, bright enough to cause
spots to swim in her eyes with the after-image. Flinging the cards away, they
floated up toward the ceiling, forgotten. Looking through the binoculars that were
always kept near the viewport, she squinted to see the object that was the
source of the light. That type of light was distinctive, it was caused by a
starship jumping in. Although the radiation leaking through the jump wormhole was
in the gamma range of the spectrum, jump wormholes pulled in dust,
micrometeorites, solar wind particles and whatever else was in the vicinity of
a ship when it jumped. Those particles glowed from fluorescence when they
emerged, making the incident briefly visible to the human eye.

Visible
for a very short time, the flare was no brighter than one of the surrounding
stars. Sami knew she saw something that wasn’t there before. The trouble was,
after the flare faded, she couldn’t see anything. “Colonel Simms?” She held the
binoculars with the strap around her elbow while talking over the radio. “I might
have just seen a ship jumping in.”

“
Mmm
,” Simms muttered as if she had just woken up, which she
probably had. 
Valkyrie’s
 acting captain had been living and sleeping in
the cargo bay where the nukes were stored, ready to act if needed. “Can you
confirm?” Simms knew how difficult it was to see an unlighted starship in the
darkness of interstellar space. Ships were supposed to shine navigation lights,
but not in a combat zone, and most of the galaxy was a potential combat zone.
Besides, interstellar space was 
big
. The odds of an accidental collision
were too vanishingly small to worry about.

“I
can’t, um,” she adjusted the magnification. There was 
something
 out
there, she could only see it because it was moving relative to the starfield. A
dark spot moved in front of a star, blotting out the light, then it moved 
away
 and the star shone again. “Yes. Confirmed. There is a
ship out there. I can’t identify it.”

“We
have to assume they are hostile.”

Sami
knew what that meant. They could not allow 
Valkyrie
 to be boarded by the
enemy. 
 
“They’re not close, all I can see
is a blob. No hull outline for identification, there’s not enough ambient light
out here.”

“If
they’re smart, they have launched stealthed dropships.”

“We
have to assume they’re smart,” Sami agreed with reluctance. This was the moment
that 
Valkyrie’s
 crew had been fearing. Simms would not allow an enemy to
capture the ship.

She
was going to detonate the nuke.

Sami
realized she was not 
afraid,
 she was just 
tired
.
Tired of waiting in the dark, in a dead ship that was growing colder by the day,
where the air got harder to breathe every day. When the nuke exploded, she
would never feel it. Death would be mercifully quick.

 
“What do you think, Captain?” Simms asked. “Wait
for them to latch onto the hull, take some of those 
MFers

with us?”

Despite
the grim situation, Sami smiled. Taking out a dropship full of murderous
aliens, whoever they were, was a pleasant thought. Her smile faded. The buildup
of CO2 in the ship made it hard to think clearly. That is why they had made the
decision about self-destructing the ship, back when they had plenty of free
oxygen to breathe. Now, she wasn’t sure they were acting rationally. That was
the point. “Ma’am, I don’t think we can wait to do that. The bad guys might
detect our 
biosigns
, and they could have some sort of
stun weapon to knock us out. We,” she hesitated to say the words, closing her
eyes tightly. “We can’t take the risk.”

Simms
didn’t respond immediately. “Understood. You’re right, of course.” She took a
breath that was audible over the radio. “Captain Reed, it has been an honor
serving with you.”

“The
honor has been mine, Colonel.”

“We
have been through some 
seriously
 weird shit together, haven’t we?”

Sami
snorted. “
More weird
 than I could have imagined. Ma’am?
We gave it a good try.”

“You
stow that shit, Captain,” Simms said with vehemence. “We gave it our 
all
.
No one could ask for more.”

“Thank
you. It’s your call, Ma’am. Do you mind if I stay here? I like the view.” 

 

 

Colonel
Chang resisted the urge to get out of the command chair and walk into the 
Dutchman’s

Combat Information Center, where he could see the console displays directly,
instead of relying on someone to tell him what was going on. “Where are we?”

“In
relation to-” Nagatha started to say.

“Nagatha,
please allow the navigator to answer the question,” Chang chided the ship’s AI.
“The most recent incident demonstrated that we humans need an ability to operate
the ship, to the greatest extent possible.”

“My
apologies, Colonel Chang.”

“Navigator?
Where are we?” Chang repeated the question, keeping the irritation he felt out
of his voice. Or, he 
tried
 to do that, the navigator might have felt
differently.

“We
are,” Mark Friedlander pressed buttons on his console, adjusting the display.
“Hmm. That was not the best, we are-”

“Doctor,”
Chang interrupted. “Can we see the 
Valkyrie
 from here? That’s all I’m
asking. I know we haven’t collided with anything.”

“Oh.
Sure. It’s uh, that’s what I was saying. We jumped in eight hundred kilometers from
the target. That’s odd. Valkyrie’s transponder should be transmitting a reply
to our ping. There is no-”

Adams
couldn’t hold her tongue any longer. “The mass detector has located an object
roughly the size of 
Valkyrie
, approximately where we expected to find
the ship.”

“It’s
there,” the officer at the other sensor station reported. “It’s faint, no
running lights. No EM signature at all,” she looked up in surprise. “Infrared
shows the reactors are cold, they’re only emanating residual heat.”

“The
ship is in one piece?” Chang gripped the armrest of the command chair.

“Yes,”
Adams declared. “Confirmed. It’s 
Valkyrie
. Colonel,” it was her turn to look
away in surprise. “It looks dead. No power generation, no response to our
signals.”

“All
right.” Chang decided the situation was critical enough to bypass the human
crew. “Nagatha, what can you tell me?”

“I
cannot add any information, Colonel Chang. There are no signs of external
damage, however, 
Valkyrie
 is neither generating nor consuming power. It
appears to be completely inert.”

“Anyone?”
Chang asked. “What does this mean?” They had all expected that with the
murderous native AI freed from Skippy’s control, that system would have jumped
the ship away, or self-destructed. For the ship to be hanging dead in space,
apparently having not moved at all, was the last thing he expected.

Smythe
ventured a guess over the comm system. “Perhaps Skippy anticipated the native
AI would attempt to rebel, and he left behind a subroutine to kill it?”

“That
is extremely unlikely,” Nagatha stated. “Skippy is too blindly arrogant to
consider that he might have been wrong about having full control over the AI.”

“Nagatha,”
Chang chided his own ship’s AI. “Skippy is an arrogant asshole, that cannot be disputed.
It is still possible that he left a fail-safe.”

“I
do not think so,” Nagatha argued. “He would have told me, and offered to
install such a subroutine in my own substrate.”

“How
can you be sure?”

Nagatha
sniffed at the question, explaining, “Skippy would not have been able to resist
the temptation to brag about how frightfully 
clever
 he was.”

“True,”
Chang conceded, scratching the back of his neck. “No response at all?”

“None,”
Nagatha confirmed. “I have the hail on repeat. If any of their communications
systems were active, we should hear 
something
.”

“
Biosigns
?” Adams asked.

Nagatha
made a good imitation of a sigh. “As 
Valkyrie
 is a battlecruiser, with
additional armor plating added when Skippy built the ship, it is difficult for passive
sensors to detect anything as small and faint as the heat signature from a
human body.”

“There
is only one way to know for certain,” Chang decided. “Send a boarding party.
Smythe, are you ready?”

“We
can launch in ten seconds,” the STAR team leader reported from a Falcon
dropship in one of the Dutchman’s docking bays.

“Excellent.
Launch-”

“Wait!”
Friedlander hopped away from his console in the CIC, frantically waving his
arms toward the bridge.

“Belay
that,” Chang snapped. “Smythe, hold, do 
not
 launch. Doctor, what is the
problem?” 

“The
crew over there could have survived?” The rocket scientist asked. “They would not
have run out of oxygen already?”

“No,”
Nagatha agreed. “Even assuming that 
Valkyrie
 lost power immediately,
there should be sufficient free oxygen to support the crew, if they minimized
their activities.”

“The
crew could be alive,” Chang suggested. “That is why we are sending a dropship
to investigate.”

“Yes,

but
!” Friedlander looked for someone to support him, realizing no one
understood his concern. “If the crew over there is alive, they don’t have
access to sensors or any form of communications, but they 
do
 have access
to the nuclear self-destruct system.”

Chang
gasped audibly.

“Colonel
Simms,” Friedlander finished his thought, “would not allow 
Valkyrie
 to
be boarded by an unidentified force. She will destroy the ship.”

“Smythe?”
Chang asked. “You heard that?”

“Yes,”
the STAR team leader sighed audibly. “The good doctor is correct. Simms would
do that. You or I would do the same.”

“I
agree. Keep the ready bird right where it is,” Chang ordered. “As a precaution,
close the bay doors.” If the 
Valkyrie
 disappeared in a nuclear fireball,
he did not want to risk debris striking the vulnerable dropship.

“Colonel
Chang?” Friedlander waved again to get the captain’s attention. “We can’t only
protect our own people. The people aboard 
Valkyrie
 could be preparing to
self-destruct right now.”

Chang
squeezed the armrest again, his knuckles turning white. “
Adams,

let them know who we are. Turn the navigation lights on.” He knew the ship’s
hull was equipped with floodlights, to assist maintenance crews and to guide
incoming dropships that had suffered failures of their guidance systems. “Turn 
all

the exterior lights on!” 

 

 

Sami
adjusted the binoculars again, trying to guess the best focus. Not knowing the
distance to the enemy ship, she rolled the dial out to maximum and tried to use
her peripheral vision. In low light, the human eye sees best when objects are
slightly off-center. That was not easy to do when pressing her eyes to the narrow
lenses of the binoculars, and when holding the 
binos

with only one hand.

Her
eyes were growing tired from the strain, the headache was getting worse, and
her rapid breathing just wasn’t getting enough oxygen to her brain. Looking for
a better view of the enemy ship was partly from a sense of duty, and partly to
keep her mind off what Simms was surely doing. She let go of the binoculars, blinking
to clear her vision. Something above caught her eye. A playing card. No, a
whole constellation of them, drifting near the ceiling. Sami smiled ruefully.
The only good aspect of the situation was that she would never have to swim in
zero gravity to collect fifty-two playing cards. One card was just above her
head, reaching up, she flicked it with a finger to send it gracefully spinning
away, until it collided with a clump of cards. Like scattering balls with a break
shot in pool, she thought. She might have just created a new zero-gee game that
she wouldn’t live to tell anyone about, a-

A
flare of light appeared in the viewport. A continuous light, brighter than any
star. Hauling on the strap to pull the binoculars back, she pressed them to her
eyes and-

“
The
Dutchman
!” She had to tell-

The
radio. It had drifted away, out of her reach. Pushing off with her feet, she-

Jerked
to a stop as the strap to the binoculars was wrapped around her left arm. The
motion caused her feet to fly up, kicking the radio away into the gloomy
darkness.

 

 

Simms
rubbed the key between thumb and forefinger. She had completed all the other
steps to initiate self-destruct. One turn to the right, and the nuke would
detonate. It would be so easy. She wouldn’t even have time to feel the 
click

as the key hit its stop, the detonator would engage before that.

Why
was she hesitating? That was the question she asked herself. Because of regret,
she knew. She regretted that she would never see Frank Muller again, yes. That wasn’t
making her hesitate, Frank had died when the alien virus destroyed the 
Flying
Dutchman
. Her regret was about not 
knowing
. Not knowing why the
microwormhole connection to Skippy had been severed. Not knowing what had
happened to Skippy, not even being able to imagine anything that 
could

have happened to Skippy. Unless the Elder computer worm had come back, there
wasn’t anything in the galaxy that could harm the arrogant beer can. Because as
much of an asshole that Skippy was, his arrogance was justified.

Just
do it
, she told
herself.

She
was being selfish. Samantha Reed was waiting for the end, hesitation only
prolonged the anxiety.

Take
a deep breath.

Force
yourself to smile, she thought. You’ve had a 
good
 life. You have seen
things other people could not even imagine, things you still can’t believe even
though you saw the events with your own eyes.

“Desai,
Giraud,” the names slipped from her lips, remembering the fallen. So many
others who had not lived to witness the mighty 
Valkyrie
 kicking ass
across the Orion Arm of the galaxy.

A
breath.

Turn
the key and-

The
radio crackled, startling her and making her hand jerk against the key.

“-
utch
-” Crackling, a burst of static. “-ease 
contac
-”

Shit.

Watching
her fingers as she lifted them off the key, she plucked the radio off her belt.
“Reed? Captain Reed?” No answer. Another burst of static. The radios only had
one 
channel,
 it was probably one of the crew calling
another. Despite strict orders to use the radio only for official communications,
she could not fault anyone for wanting to reach out for human contact. “Anyone?
Whoever is speaking, it’s all right.” No response. The speaker was probably ashamed
of the breach of discipline.

The
radio went back on her belt.

Another
breath, she placed her hand on the key, pressing-

“Simms!
Colonel Simms!” Reed shouted, frantic. “
Don’t
 do it! The 
Flying
Dutchman
 is here! They’re here!”

With
a trembling hand, Simms cradled the radio. Reed was 
halucinating

from the CO2 poisoning. Simms blinked, having trouble focusing her eyes. “Captain,
I understand. I am afraid too. You don’t have-”

“They
are 
HERE
 
you
 stupid bitch!” Reed barked,
pleading.

“
What
?”
Simms’s response was outrage.

“Sorry,
Ma’am,” Reed was overwhelmed with emotion. “I n-needed to get your attention.
It’s real. It’s the 
Dutchman
. They turned on their external lights, I
can 
see
 them. They’re calling on the radio!”

“Is
that-” She stared at the radio. “Why can’t 
I
 hear them?”

“You
are too far inside the ship. Ma’am, Colonel Simms, I’m not lying. Send another
crewman here to verify. But please, 
please
 take the key out of that
nuke. Colonel Chang won’t send a dropship until he hears from you that it is
safe to approach.”

Simms
was torn. Having accepted death, it would be agony if Reed were lying, and she had
to do it again. Did she trust the pilot’s skill, professionalism and integrity?
Yes. Did she also accept that Reed was a fallible human, like any other? Yes. “That
is a sensible precaution. I will contact-”

“Hold
one moment, Ma’am. Uh, ooh, wow. This is kind of awkward.”

“What?”

“Mister

Muller
 is on the radio now. He says to tell you that your
 
Pookie
 misses you?”

“Holy
shit.” Only Frank knew her pet name for his-

That
was not anyone’s business.

She
did not trust herself to remove the key, so she tucked the chain inside and
closed the cover of the warhead casing. “Captain Reed, please inform the 
Dutchman

that I will contact them shortly.” On second thought, she had to make damned
certain that no one accidently, or for any other reason touched the key, so she
lifted the lid, slowly extracted the key without daring to breathe, and tucked
it in a pocket. “Reed?’

“Yes?”

“I
am giving you a free pass for that ‘stupid bitch’ remark. It saved our lives.
Don’t do it again.”

“Thank
you, Ma’am.”

“Thank

you
, Captain.”

 

 

Simms
accepted a glass of whiskey from Chang, rocking the heavy glass back and forth
to hear the tinkling sound of the ice cubes. She did not like whiskey. She also
did not wish to insult the Dutchman’s captain in his office. She did like
breathing air that didn’t give her a headache, she liked being able to drink
out of a glass rather than a squeeze bottle, and she enjoyed the scent of freshly-baked
chocolate chip cookies coming from a plate on Chang’s desk.

She
did not like the taste of whiskey, that was not a problem. “Thank you,” she tossed
the glass back and swallowed the entire glass, trapping the ice cubes with her
teeth. “Ah,” she coughed and spoke in a choked voice. “That was smooth.” 

Chang’s
eyes were wide with disbelief. “You are supposed to 
sip
 it,” he chided
her gently.

“It’s
the only way,” she reached for a cookie and nibbled it to take away the fiery
taste of the alcohol. “That I can drink that stuff.”

“Jennifer,
if you had told me, I could have given you a glass of wine.”

“No,”
she waved a hand. “Taste doesn’t matter. I needed that. For medicinal
purposes.”

“I
understand. If we could have come sooner, we would have.”

“My
question is, why did you come here at all? Captain Frey told me that Smythe
made a strong argument for going to Rikers instead.”

“Smythe
did make a strong argument. Tactically, he was right.”

“Then
why did you come here?”

Chang
took a sip of his own drink, savoring the liquid properly. “It is a simple
matter of probabilities. Assuming something terrible did happen to Skippy, it
is unlikely that we poor monkeys could fix it, even if we had the 
Dutchman
,

Valkyrie
 and all the king’s horses.”

“It
was also unlikely you could do anything, if the native AI was still in control
of 
Valkyrie
,” Simms noted, and surprised him by pouring another finger
of whiskey into her glass.

“True.
Between two impossible tasks, I chose the one that was the least impossible.”

“Thank
you,” she raised her glass to toast him, and took a sip. It wasn’t as bad as
she remembered. Maybe she was just very, very tired. “So, what now?”

“Now,”
he toasted her with his glass, and took a sip. “We tackle the 
more

impossible task.”

“Nagatha
has no insight into what could have caused the microwormholes to collapse?”

“No.
Other than that she is certain the collapse was initiated on the far end. She
cannot give us any advice, and I fear to jump this ship into the unknown.
Especially if that unknown includes something so powerful that it is capable of
disabling Skippy. Doctor Friedlander has an alternate theory.”

“He
does?”

“Yes.
He is quite 
smart,
 we are fortunate to have him aboard
the 
Dutchman
. He thinks that perhaps there is 
not
 a problem with
Skippy. The microwormhole collapse could have been caused by a Thuranin
weapon.”

“The
cyborgs 
attacked
 the microwormholes?”

“No,”
Chang shook his head. “It is not likely the Thuranin could detect the
wormholes. Friedlander believes it is possible that the Thuranin deployed some
type of spatial disruption device, which caused a resonance that inadvertently collapsed
the wormholes.”

“Why
would they do that?”

“That
is not known. Perhaps they used a weapon that disrupts spacetime as a side
effect. Perhaps they have a new type of damping field? It is only a theory.
Frankly, the good Doctor is guessing.”

“If
he is right,” she drank the last of the whiskey in her glass. No, she was not
developing a taste for it. “Then Bishop and Skippy could be unharmed, and simply
unable to contact us.”

“Exactly.
We will proceed on that assumption. We jump in far from the planet, to learn
what we can from passive sensors. Then we make decisions based on what we find
there.”

“It
sounds good. Maybe 
too
 good.”

“How
so?”

“It’s
what we 
want
 to believe. We jump in, find that Skippy and Bishop are
just bored and annoyed and wondering what took us so long to pick them up. That
is a lot more pleasant than discovering that a Sentinel fried Skippy.”

Chang
choked on his drink. “A 
Sentinel
?”

Simms
waved a hand. “Sorry. I was only using that as an example, of something that is
capable of causing trouble for that little shithead beer can.”

“Let
us not have any more talk of Sentinels, please,” his shoulders shuddered
involuntarily.

“You
won’t hear it from me. When do we jump?” She wondered if there would be time
for her to close her eyes for a couple hours, in a real bed rather than
floating in a sleeping bag.

Chang
glanced at his phone. “Six hours, thirty-six minutes. I suggest you catch up on
sleep, if you can.”

“I’ll
try for a solid four hours. I’d like a hot meal before we jump.” She stood up.
“Where will I be bunking?”

“In
Bishop’s old cabin, for now. With all the people we rescued from Rikers, many
of us are having to hot bunk.”

“It’s
a real bed, with gravity, and a hot shower. I can’t ask for anything more.”

 

 

Nagatha
made a sound like clearing her throat, and announced “Colonel Chang, we are
ready for jump in all respects. Where do you wish to go?”

Chang
glanced at Simms in the CIC, she nodded agreement. The 
Flying Dutchman

had just completed a successful test jump, and nothing important had broken.
Chang wanted to be absolutely certain his ship was in perfect condition,
because the crews of both ships, plus all the people rescued from Rikers, were
aboard. As the senior officer, he had decided to leave 
Valkyrie’s

lifeless hulk drifting in interstellar space, with a few powercells to activate
proximity sensors. If any unauthorized vessel attempted to approach the
defenseless battlecruiser, the nuke would be triggered. No one wanted that to
happen. “Please plot a jump to take us in, twenty light-minutes past the photon

wavefront
 of the incident.”

Nagatha
instantly understood. “You intend to observe what happened near the planet,
before and after the microwormholes collapsed?”

“Yes.
Twenty minutes should be sufficient for our sensors to fully reset after the
jump. Are the ship’s sensors capable of providing useful accuracy at that
distance?”

“It
has been more than twelve days since the 
incident,

however we should be able to clearly see Colonel Bishop’s dropship.”

“Outstanding.
Plan to jump us in perpendicular to the plane of the Thuranin ship’s orbit.
Above or below, your choice.” He knew the terms ‘above’ and ‘below’ were
meaningless in deep space.

“May
I ask why?” Nagatha asked, adding a note of curiosity in her voice.

“I
do not want the Thuranin ship to go behind the planet during the time we are
observing.”

“Oh.
That is very astute of you, Colonel. Jump is programmed into the navigation
system.”

Chang
tugged the strap tighter across his waist. “Pilot, jump us when ready.”

 

The

Flying Dutchman
 emerged in a shower of gamma rays, mostly directed away
from the planet. Sensors took only three minutes to become fully operational,
then it was a matter of waiting. And waiting.

Images
began to arrive, on photons that left the vicinity of Rikers shortly before the
microwormholes collapsed. First, the dropship flown by Bishop became visible,
having lost power to its stealth field. That incident occurred at the same
moment when the microwormholes collapsed, matching the 
Dutchman’s
 data
from the time. A brief message was sent by Bishop. “
Flying Dutchman
!
Chang, I lost stealth and-” It cut off abruptly.

“We
never heard that message,” Chang frowned.

“Correct,
Colonel,” Nagatha said. “The Thuranin were jamming regular communications, and
the microwormholes had already collapsed.”

Also
matching the ship’s data, the dropship wrapped itself in a stealth field but
not before the local satellite network began saturating the area with active
sensors, hunting for the vulnerable Dragon. The crew on the bridge of the 
Flying
Dutchman
 saw their own ship jump in, and recover the rescue team’s
dropships, then jump away in a chaotic burst of gamma rays.

“That
will never cease to be weird,” Chang said to himself.

“What
is, Sir?” Reed asked from the pilot couch.

“Seeing

ourselves
, back in time,” Chang explained. “Nagatha, is any of what
we’re seeing now, different from what our sensors recorded at the time?”

“No,”
she confirmed. “The data is an exact match. Why did you ask?”

“Because
at the time, you were being attacked by the virus. I thought it was possible
the virus could have altered our sensor records.”

“Hmm.
That is also an astute observation. I should have thought of that. Colonel
Chang, I apologize for my lapse of-”

“Nagatha,”
he cut her off. “A ship’s crew is a 
team
. We work together. You do not
have to do everything by yourself.”

“I,
oh, Colonel Chang,” her voice choked up. “That is possibly the nicest thing
anyone has ever said to me.”

“Focus,
please,” he pointed at the bridge display. “This is the part we did 
not

see, after we jumped away with the rescue dropships.”

 

They
watched as the sensor satellites around Rikers tried to pinpoint Bishop’s
Dragon, which had disappeared again in stealth. The Thuranin ship turned and
burned, joining the hunt. Three Falcon dropships launched from their Thuranin mothership,
surging ahead at an impressive sustained six gravities of acceleration.

It
appeared that Bishop was able to evade pursuit, and Chang began to hope that
the commander of the Pirates was still out there somewhere, floating outward in
silence. That hope was dashed when the Dragon became visible again as the
spacecraft appeared to have lost all power. A Thuranin dropship swerved
violently to close in with the defenseless Dragon, firing an energy beam that
had no visible effect.

“Nagatha,”
Chang asked. “What was that?”

“That
was not good,” she gasped. “It was a beam that disrupts electrical equipment.
You might call it an EMP weapon.”

“Electromagnetic
pulse? Why bother? The Dragon is not generating any power.”

“Perhaps
the Thuranin wish to be certain the craft cannot restore power. Colonel Chang,
what you need to know is that type of EMP weapon acts against all types of
electrical activity. Including that of a biological nervous system. It is often
used to stun and disable the crew of a vessel the Thuranin wish to capture.”

“
Capture
?”
Chang gripped the arms of the command chair. “
Ohhhhh
,
no. Bishop won’t let that happen. He will detonate the nuke.”

“If
he 
can
,” Nagatha emphasized. “The EMP beam might have rendered him
unconscious, and also disabled the arming system of the nuke.”

“The
nuke has a manual backup,” Simms reported from the CIC.

“Yes,”
Chang nodded. “That is only useful if Bishop is conscious. No!” On the display,
they saw the Thuranin fire another EMP burst, from a closer range.

“I
am sorry,” Nagatha sighed. “it is very unlikely Colonel Bishop would be
conscious after that second attack.”

“Skippy
would not allow Bishop to be captured,” Simms said, a mixture of hope and fear
in her voice. “He knows our standing orders.”

Chang
didn’t speak. He knew what would happen next. The Dragon would disappear in a
nuclear fireball. “Nagatha,” he asked quietly as the Thuranin dropship matched
speed and approached the helpless Dragon. “Can you predict Skippy’s location,
based on data from the,” he hesitated to say the word. “The blast?”

“Not
from here, Colonel,” she answered. “It would be more useful to jump in closer,
and listen for a signal from Skippy. He would not be harmed by detonation of
the nuclear device.”

“Yeah,
sure, but,” Friedlander spoke from the doorway of the bridge.

“Yes,
Doctor?” Chang half turned in his seat.

“We
haven’t seen anything that explains why the microwormholes collapsed.”

“
Ohhh
,” Simms looked up from her console in the CIC. “He’s
right. Doctor, you theorized that some sort of unknown Thuranin weapon
disrupted the microwormholes?”

“A
weapon, or something they did unintentionally,” Friedlander reminded her. “It
was just a guess, to fit the facts we knew. I didn’t see anything that could
have disrupted the wormholes. The Dragon was in stealth, then it lost power at
the same time as the wormholes shut down. There isn’t any external factor to
explain the incident. Nagatha? Do you see anything in the data that could have
disrupted the wormholes?”

“No,
Doctor. It is as you described. The Dragon was in stealth, then lost power.
There was no external factor that could have triggered the loss of power and
the wormhole collapses.”

“Then
we have a 
big
 problem,” Friedlander stepped onto the bridge, walking
over to the display and tapping the fuzzy images of the Dragon and the Thuranin
dropship, as they drew closer together.

“What
is that?” Chang asked.

“If
something happened to Skippy, there wasn’t anyone to trigger that nuke,”
Friedlander explained. “They could both be captured.”

“That
would be a disaster,” Simms gasped, a hand over her mouth in horror.

“Let
us not jump to conclusions,” Chang directed. “Perhaps Skippy is waiting for the
other dropship to get closer. Or for the Dragon to be taken aboard the Thuranin
ship.”

“That
would not have happened,” Friedlander shook his head sadly. “The Thuranin will
detect alpha radiation from the nuke once they get inside the Dragon. No way
would they take it aboard their ship.”

Over
the next hour, they watched images from the incoming photons, images of incidents
that took place more than a week ago. The Thuranin sent two bots to attach to
and drill into the Dragon’s hull. Shortly thereafter, there was a burst of
message traffic from the dropship to its mothership, warning the big ship away.

A
larger bot attached to the Dragon, sealing itself over the hull and cutting a
hole. Out floated an elongated bag, a bag large enough to contain a human body.
“I have a bad feeling about this,” Chang muttered. “Nagatha, can you determine
what is in that bag?”

“Not
accurately. However, it is a heat source consistent with that of a human body.”

“A 
living

human?”

“That
I cannot tell from here. A recently deceased person would still generate
substantial heat. The bag is blocking any electrical signals from a heartbeat.”

“So,
Bishop could be dead, or alive. We don’t know.”

“That
is correct,” the ship’s AI answered sadly.

“Is
it wrong,” Chang asked to no one in particular, “that I wish he were dead?”

 

The
bag was taken through the Thuranin dropship’s airlock. Soon after, the Dragon’s
airlock opened, and a bot floated out, holding the nuclear warhead. The bot
accelerated away in one direction, while the Thuranin spacecraft burned gently
toward its mothership. It flew into a docking bay and was lost to sight, then
the starship maneuvered back into orbit.

 

“We
have to assume the Thuranin captured Bishop alive,” Chang concluded, as the
senior Pirates gathered in the 
Dutchman’s
 conference room. “Their
dropship accelerated at no more than one-third Earth gravity when it returned
to its mothership. I believe that is most likely because they had to avoid
causing damage to an injured passenger.”

“I
agree,” Smythe smacked a fist on the table. “It will be devilishly difficult to
rescue Bishop from that ship, to accomplish that without assistance from
Skippy. Nagatha, is there any indication that Skippy was in the bag with
Bishop?”

“No.
There is also no indication that Skippy was 
not
 in the bag. We simply do
not know.”

“I
doubt it,” Friedlander rubbed the back of his neck. “Remember, the Thuranin
have no idea what Skippy is, they wouldn’t think his canister is anything other
than a piece of equipment. He is likely still aboard the Dragon.” Since the
nuke had been removed, more bots had gone inside the Dragon to thoroughly
examine the craft. It had not been taken aboard the starship, a sign that the
Thuranin were wary of other boobytraps.

Smythe
tapped the table with a finger. “We must determine the location and condition
of Skippy before we can create a plan to rescue Bishop. The Thuranin-”

“There
will not necessarily be a rescue operation,” Chang interrupted, his eyes
darting to Gunnery Sergeant Adams in the CIC, then looking away.

“No
rescue?” Smythe froze.

“No.
It might be too risky. If Bishop were in contact with us, he would not allow us
to take the risk just for him.”

“
Sir
,”
Smythe protested. “If the Thuranin are able to interrogate Bishop, he could
tell them every-”

“That
is why,” Chang explained patiently, “we must not allow that to happen. Though I
fear we may already be too late,” he shook his head. “The events we witnessed
took place days ago. That Thuranin ship could have jumped, very likely 
did

jump away. We need more recent information. Nagatha, if we need to destroy that
ship, is the 
Dutchman
 capable of winning a fight, without sustaining
serious damage? I must think of our passengers,” he added with a look at faces
around the table.

“Depending
on the circumstances, and with the proper planning, the 
Flying Dutchman

could destroy the enemy ship,” the ship’s AI answered. “Colonel Chang, are you
suggesting we attack that ship, to 
kill
 Colonel Bishop?”

“I
am suggesting,” Chang knew the AI had a special affection for Bishop, “that it
is necessary to consider such action. Boarding a Thuranin ship is not
practical,” He looked at Smythe, who nodded agreement. “Even if we could
disable the ship and gain access, the Thuranin would kill Bishop before we
could secure him. No matter. We must determine the location and status of
Skippy, with data that is more current. Nagatha, if we jump in one light-hour
away from the planet, would that give you enough time to analyze message
traffic?”

“I
would prefer more 
time,
 however, signal traffic
degrades with distance. One light-hour is acceptable.”

“Very
well. Simms,” Chang directed his attention to his new, hopefully temporary,
executive officer. “Before we jump, we need a plan to destroy the Thuranin
ship, in the unlikely event it is still in orbit.”

“Yes,
Sir.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER NINE

 

The

Flying Dutchman
 jumped into the star system, emerging one light-hour
from the planet that humans had named ‘Rikers’. Immediately, Nagatha deployed
sensor antennas to their maximum extent, long, feathery ears that listened
across the electromagnetic spectrum.

Chang
had the ship on high alert. Throughout the ship, blast doors were closed. The
STAR team was in full combat armor, with two Falcon dropships ready to launch
at a moment’s notice. Regardless of the tension, he expected many minutes of
tense boredom, while waiting for Nagatha to make sense of the signals and
images they were receiving.

When
the ship’s AI spoke less than two minutes later, he was startled. “Colonel
Chang,” Nagatha’s breathy voice was excited. “The Thuranin ship is not in
orbit.”

“Ah.
It is as I expected. Simms, tell the STAR team to stand-”

“I
do not believe the Thuranin jumped away,” Nagatha continued. “There is a
substantial debris field around the planet. The volume and composition of the
debris matches that of a Thuranin ship.”

“The
ship was 
destroyed?
 How?”

“I
do not have that information, nor do I know who attacked the Thuranin.
According to the Kristang, based on message traffic I have intercepted, the Thuranin
ship was experiencing technical difficulties for several days. It then exploded
without apparent external cause, shortly after bombarding sites on the
surface.”

Chang
slumped back in the command chair. “This gets curiouser and curiouser. What
could have caused-” He sat up, placing elbows on the armrests. “At least we
have the comfort that Bishop is no longer suffer-”

“Colonel
Bishop was not aboard the ship when it exploded,” Nagatha reported gleefully.

“He

wasn’t
?”

“No.
When their ship began experiencing severe engineering failures, the Thuranin
flew Bishop to a Kristang facility on the surface. Colonel Chang, that is not
the most important information I have to report.”

Chang
resisted the temptation to guess. “Proceed.”

“I
have identified Skippy’s location, course and speed.”

“Course
and 
speed
?” Chang had assumed the Elder AI would be on the planet with
Bishop. “Where is he?” 

“He
is moving away from the planet, at a velocity faster than escape velocity. His
current course and speed is not consistent with being in the Dragon, when that
dropship was captured. I cannot explain why he is 
there
.”

“Simms,”
Chang turned to look into the CIC. “What do you think?”

“Nagatha,”
Simms asked. “Do you know Bishop’s location?”

“No,”
the ship’s AI answered. “The facility where he was being held was struck by the
Thuranin ship, just before it apparently self-destructed.”

“The
Thuranin 
killed
 Bishop?” Simms couldn’t believe it. “Why would they-”

“Ha!”
Chang snorted. “Hahaha!” He laughed and slapped his knee.

“
Sir
?”
Simms cocked her head at the ship’s captain.

“A
jail holding Bishop is hit from orbit, and a starship mysteriously explodes?”

“Skippy?”
Simms gasped.

“Exactly,”
Chang’s face broke into a broad smile. “Our irascible beer can is falling back
on his Greatest Hits collection. Smythe, you heard that?”

“Yes,
Sir,” the STAR team leader acknowledged. “My team is ready to retrieve Bishop
from the surface, if he can be located.”

Chang
rubbed his chin, considering. “Jumping in only a few light-seconds from the planet,
we will alert every sensor in the area. We will need to pick up Skippy, then
move fast. Nagatha, program a jump.”

 

 

“Skippy!”
Chang called as soon as the ship emerged from jump, a mere twenty kilometers
from the Elder AI. A Falcon was launching, burning hard to intercept the
drifting beer can. “Where is Colonel Bishop?”

“Oh,
well,” the AI sniffed, indignant. “A cheery ‘Hello’ to you too.”

“Pleasantries
can wait,” Chang insisted. “Especially as I assume that whatever disaster
happened to collapse the microwormholes and allow Bishop to be captured, it was

your
 fault.”

“Um,
well, heh 
heh
, um. Hmm. Mistakes were made.”

“Mistakes-”
Simms clenched her fists and regained control of herself. “
Valkyrie
 and
the 
Dutchman
 were nearly destroyed, you-”

“Well,

that
 certainly could not have been my fault,” Skippy grumbled.

“It
was 
absolutely
 your fault,” Nagatha snapped. “You failed-”

“Hey!”
Skippy shouted. “Could this meeting of the We Hate Skippy Club adjourn for the
moment?”

Chang
clenched his teeth. He needed to focus. “Agreed. What is Bishop’s status?”

“Joe
died as he lived,” Skippy sighed. “Stupidly.”

“Bishop
is 
dead
?”

“He
might as well be. I gave him a nice 
phone
 and did he
take care of it? No, he 
broke
 it! Careless moron. I lost contact with
him two days ago. However, I have been listening to Kristang communications,
and I fear he is surrounded by lizards right now.”

Chang
held up a hand for quiet. “Smythe has a STAR team ready to deploy to the
surface, as soon as-”

“We
don’t have 
time
 for that!” Skippy pleaded. “The message traffic I am
monitoring indicates the lizards are closing in on Joe’s position.”

“If
the Kristang capture him,” Chang squeezed the armrest until his knuckles turned
white. “I will threaten to bombard-”

“That
won’t work!” Skippy cried. “The lizards don’t intend to capture Joe! They plan
to 
kill
 him!”

“We
are ready to launch, Sir!” Smythe called.

“Hold
one,” Chang ordered, scanning the report summary from Nagatha. Unlike the
scatterbrained Skippy, the 
Dutchman’s
 AI had learned what information
was important to a commander. “Commandant Fabron? I need your Commando team to
extract Bishop.”

“Yes,
Colonel,” the French officer replied.

“Sir?”
Smythe was surprised and hurt. “What about the STAR-”

“I
have another tasking for you, Smythe. It could be tricky, and you will have to
plan on the fly.”

“What
is the target?”

“A
pair of Thuranin pilots, on the surface. They are the only Thuranin left in the
system. Capture them 
alive
, Smythe. We need to know how much 
they

know, about us.”

“That
will be tricky.”

“Your
team can do it?”

“Who
dares, wins,” Smythe recited the motto of the Special Air Services.

 

 

There
wasn’t anywhere left to run. The Kristang had me surrounded, caught out in the
open. That morning I had seen a team of four lizards on top of a ridge to the
west. At that time, I was moving along a ridgeline, trying to get to a river I
had seen from a hill the day before. Get to the river, was my plan. Float down
wherever the river went. I could hang onto a log like Huckleberry Finn, or
maybe that was Tom Sawyer. That didn’t matter now, because I had not gotten to
the river. Instead, I had been forced to turn around and go northeast, back the
way I came.

Part
of me wondered what 
was the point of
 trying to evade
capture. Without contact with Skippy, and with no sign of either starship
coming to rescue me, all I was doing was delaying the inevitable. Really, the
only thing that kept me going was the idea that I was being a pain in the ass
to the Kristang, which was always a good thing.

Except
now I couldn’t run any farther. Going out into the open, a sort of marshy
meadow, had not been by choice. Lizards were behind me on both sides, forcing
me to run away from them. When I got halfway across the meadow, my shoes
squishing in puddles from the continual rain, more Kristang came out of the
woods, about fifty meters in front of me. This new group, seven of them that I
could see, were not wearing powered armor, though they did have rifles, helmets
and light armor panels attached to their clothing.

“
Shit
,”
I exploded, immediately regretting that I spoke so loudly. One of my ribs was
cracked, maybe broken. Breathing hard was painful and I had been coughing up
spots of blood since I fell to the bottom of the canyon. Straightening up by
pushing hands on my knees, I lifted one arm while shrugging off the knapsack
with the other. “Hey, asshole,” I grunted in the best Kristang I could manage.
“Go ahead, shoot me.” A quick death had to be better than whatever the lizards
or Thuranin had planned for me. Up my left sleeve was the knife I took from the
hospital. It was still admirably sharp, some type of composite. If a lizard came
close enough, I would stab it. That would be a waste of effort, but hopefully
it would spur them to mercifully put a round through my forehead.

Hoping
for a quick and painless death, that’s what my life had come to.

Good
times.

“
Hur
, 
hur
, 
hur
,”
one of the lizards in front of me laughed, a sound that sent a chill up my
spine. “You speak our language, human?”

“Yeah.
I figure that when I’m kicking your ass, I could at least be polite about it,”
I replied. Or, that’s what I tried to say. My Kristang is rusty, he might have
thought I was trying to order a pizza delivery.

The
smile left his face. “You are insolent, pitiful human. Good, that is good. It
will make killing you all the more enjoyable.” He raised his rifle. I could
have admonished him for poor muzzle discipline, but he intended to point it at
my chest, so it was understandable.

“Be
careful,” I said. With a gun pointed at me, I suddenly was not so eager for a
quick death.
  
“You could hurt someone
with that toy. Your Thuranin masters would not be happy if you injured their 
prize.“
The
 Thuranin are not our 
masters
.”
He turned his head and spat on the wet, matted grass of the meadow. “They do
wish to capture you, to learn how you took our slaves away from this world.
They wish to humiliate us for our poor security. I do not wish to give the
Thuranin that opportunity. I do not wish to give them 
anything
 they
want.”

“Oh,
hey,” I stammered, forgetting the awkward sentence structure of their language.
“We hate the Thuranin too, maybe we can-”

“Silence!”
He aimed the rifle an inch higher.

And
pulled the trigger.

The
rifle barked, spitting out a round straight at my chest.

It 
missed
.

I
peed a little in my borrowed pants.

The
other lizards all laughed for a beat, until the leader glared at them, checking
his rifle and aiming it more carefully. To be sure, he took a step toward me.
And pulled the trigger again.

It
missed, this one going wide to my left. I know that because there was a wet 
thump

sound from behind me, and angry, alarmed shouting. Apparently, Asshole 
Numero
 Uno had shot one of his own guys.

That
sent him into a rage, and he strode forward, firing three-round bursts at me.

The
guided rounds went wide right, left, over my head and splattering into the muck
in front of me, spraying me with wet grass.

All
of the guided rounds
 missed
.

Shrieking,
he angrily tossed the rifle aside.

“Hey,
little boys should not play with dangerous toys.” I joked.

“Do
not laugh, human,” he growled at me. “My rifle’s aiming system is defective.
What you do not know is that I have a pistol,” he pulled it from a holster on
his right thigh. “With 
unguided
 rounds.”

“Uh
huh,” I agreed, and pointed to the sky. “What 
you
 do not know is that I
have a 
starship
 in orbit.”

“You
lie,” he scowled at me, but there was doubt in his eyes.

“Whoever
is up there?” I switched back to speaking English. “Fire for effect.”

The
meadow exploded, tossing me through the air.

 

 

The

Flying Dutchman’s
 attempt at a rescue nearly killed me. The maser
cannons of some starships have 
an anti-personnel

setting that is rarely used, but Chang couldn’t risk firing the cannons in that
mode. I was too close to the enemy, the wide-dispersal beam would have cooked me
alive. As it was, I got flash-burns from the low-powered, pencil-thin microwave
laser beams that struck with precision all around me, blowing craters in the
marshy meadow and turning the Kristang into charred pieces of lizard meat.

The
mud saved me, and also came close to killing me. With maser beams having to
burn through clouds and rain, a measurable part of the energy was dispersed to
bombard the meadow with high-energy photons, and moisture in the air was
flashed instantly into super-heated steam. My eyelids automatically clamped
shut and my arms flew up to cover my face, that was why my hands look like
boiled lobsters, but my Hollywood-handsome face sustained only what looks and
felt like a bad sunburn. It would have been worse for me if fountains of mud
had not been flung up from craters to slash on me in a thick layer, knocking me
off my feet and protecting my exposed skin. Lying in a puddle of muddy water
that was warmer than a bathtub, I was stunned. Trying to catch my breath was a 
bad

idea, the lining of my mouth burned as I tried to suck in a breath of air that
had turned to steam hot enough to boil my lungs. The only thing to do was clamp
my mouth shut and put my lobster-red hands over my face.

The
mud and water protected me, but if the masers kept pouring energy into the air
around me, I would have been cooked, literally. The 
Dutchman’s
 crew used
maser cannons only for the initial strike, to prevent the Kristang from killing
me and throw them into disarray. Following the 
maser

beams were not railgun darts, though the rebuilt 
Dutchman
 Version 4.0
had two railguns. No, hitting the meadow with railguns at normal speed would
have blown me to bits. The railgun muzzle velocity could have been decreased to
lower the kinetic impact, but at that point, the darts would not have been much
faster than a missile. Darts were also less flexible than missiles. So, a few
seconds behind the 
maser
 beams, while the surviving
Kristang were as stunned as I was, a missile roared overhead at hypersonic
speed, dispersing antipersonnel submunitions. Those weapons, no larger than the
‘Fun-size’ candy bars that cause disappointment to children on Halloween, got
their initial guidance from active sensor scans of the missile that was already
kilometers away. Switching on their own active and passive sensors, the
submunitions identified targets very carefully, having been given very clear
instructions to give top priority to pin-pointing the location of the only
human on the surface of the planet. It took no more than a hundredth of a
second for sensors to determine that one particular mud-encased lump was
generating electrical impulses matching a human heartbeat. It took no more than
a microsecond for all submunitions to communicate with all the others and
coordinate their actions to avoid harming me. Or, from harming me more than was
unavoidable. With more than two dozen submunitions hunting for targets,
striking at high speed and exploding, there was a lot of stuff flying around in
all directions. Kristang body parts can be deadly, if they are moving fast
enough.

 

My
ears were ringing from the hypersonic boom of the missile and the sharp crack
of explosions in every direction. When I couldn’t hold my breath any longer, I
scooped partially-dried mud away from my mouth and exhaled, judging the
temperature of the air by how my lips felt.

It
felt Ok. The maser cannons had poured a lot of energy into water vapor around
the meadow, but that water vapor cooled quickly as steam rose over the meadow
and cooler air rushed in to fill the vacuum. Sucking in a breath made me choke
not because of the steam that was still making the air foggy, but because I
breathed in a clot of sticky mud.

Coughing
out the mud got me onto my hands and knees, that’s when I realized my hands
felt like they had been trying to get French-fries fresh from the fryer.

They

hurt
. A lot. Plunging them into cool mud helped a bit.

I
got to my knees, then my feet, staggering around. The rifle discarded by
Asshole 
Numero
 Uno was sticking out of a puddle, I
dug it out, cleared the barrel as best I could, and fired a test round. The
rifle worked just fine. Aiming at the shattered stump of a tree, I put a round
into it, dead-center. There was nothing wrong with the aiming system. The next
shot went wide and missed the stump. That was my fault, my hands were 
shaky
 and it was like my eyes couldn’t focus properly. Maybe
my coordination needed some improving. Hopefully, I wouldn’t need to shoot at
anything.

Making
a circuit of what used to be a meadow, I found lots of pre-cooked Lizard Bits,
which sounds like something you might find in an alien pet food store. What I
did not find was the one damned thing I wanted. A freakin’ working phone, damn
it.

Finally,
I found a phone under the charred torso of a lizard. Wow. If you think lizards
smell bad when they’re alive, you have no idea what the stench is like when
they are blown apart and roasted.

Pressing
the transmit button, I sat down wearily on a patch of charred grass. “Hey,
Skippy.”

“
Joe
!
Oh, Joe! You’re 
alive
!”

“Yeah,
mostly. Thanks for screwing with the targeting system of that lizard’s rifle.”

“You
knew it was me doing that?”

“I
took a chance. It wasn’t like I had a choice. Thanks anyway.”

“Oh,
no problem, Joe. It was the least I could do. We could hear you, through the
comm system of the lizard leader, but of course we couldn’t talk 
to

you.”

“You
did great. All of you. Where are you?”

“Aboard
the 
Dutchman
 in low orbit, kind of right over your head. Fabron is
coming down in two dropships to retrieve you, their ETA is twelve minutes.”

“Fabron?”
That surprised me. “Not Smythe?”

“The
STAR team is busy, I’ll explain later.”

“That’s
great. Ah, shit.”

“What,
Joe? Are you Ok?”

“I’m

tired
, Skippy. Really, really tired. Give me a Sitrep, the short
version,” I asked, feeling like I might fall asleep if I didn’t keep talking.

“Um,
well, heh 
heh
-”

“Shit.”

“Joe,
it appears the 
Flying Dutchman
 was attacked by a computer virus,
immediately after the microwormholes shut down. That damned virus, the one I
thought I had scrubbed from the 
Dutchman
, came close to killing Nagatha.
Anyway, it’s all good now,” he laughed nervously. “I am very proud of the way
Nagatha handled the situation.”

He
 was proud of something that Nagatha did.
Something she did, to fix 
his
 screw-up. Hearing his stunning, clueless
level of arrogance was actually comforting to me, because it meant he was back
to 
being
 the old Skippy I knew. “What about 
Valkyrie
?”

“Ooh,
uh, um. The short answer is, the AI tried to kill the crew, but Simms was very
clever. The native AI either committed suicide, or something killed it.”

“Something
aboard the ship 
killed
 
it?
 Oh my- There is
something aboard the ship that is even more dangerous than the native AI?”

“No!
I shouldn’t have said it that way. It looks like there was a kill switch
subroutine hidden somewhere, that destroyed the AI. Unfortunately, it
completely disabled the system. 
Valkyrie
 is currently drifting without
power, right where we left it. There are injuries, but 
no one
 was
killed, Joe. Let’s focus on that.”

Of
course he wanted to avoid responsibility. “What have you told people about why
you bailed on us?”

“They,
um, they don’t know about that yet.”

“Chang
didn’t ask why the microwormholes shut down?”

“Not
yet. We’ve been kind of busy up here. Ugh,” he sighed. “I know, I know. I need
to own up to my mistakes. Oh, 
this 
sucks
. I 
know

that I screwed up big-time, I don’t need a bunch of screeching monkeys berating
me about it. I’ll do it, just let me-”

“Don’t,”
I heard someone say that, and was surprised to hear it was me.

“What?”

“Don’t
do it. Don’t tell anyone.”

“Um,

Okaaaay
,” he said slowly. “Why?”

“Because
the crew needs to believe they can trust you.”

“Whoa.
Really?”

“You
think they 
don’t
 need to trust you?”

“No,
I, I see that they do.”

“They

can
 trust you, right? You are never going to bail on us again?”

“Cross
my heart and hope to die, Joe,” his voice quavered. “I can’t even begin to tell
you how ashamed I am.”

“Great.
Then it will be our little secret.”

“Um,
wow. I am honored. Joe, I can’t believe I am asking this question, 
but,
 are you sure about this?”

“Yes.
I’m the commander. I will take the burden of knowing what really happened, so
my people can focus on the mission.”

“Joe
most of the time, I think you are just cosplaying as a soldier, but you are the
real deal. Damn, I’m sure glad I don’t have your job. How can I ever thank
you?”

“By

earning
 my trust.”

“Ok,
deal. Um, we need to tell them 
something
, Joe.”

“Yeah,
uh, make up a story? A good one.”

“You
constantly tell me that I am terrible at lying.”

“Good
point. All right, uh, tell them I ejected you from the dropship, before it got
zapped.”

“Hmm.
OK, OK, that could work. The dropship was traveling at-”

“Skippy,
I have a headache and I’m really tired, so spare me the nerdy math details.”

“Sure.
Joe, ejecting me explains why I was not in the Dragon, but not why all of the
microwormholes collapsed.”

“Right.
Uh, how about this: when 
Valkyrie’s
 original AI was ready to trigger the
virus aboard the 
Dutchman
, and take over its own ship, it also tried to
attack you through the wormhole connection. You had to shut down all your
external connections to protect yourself, so you could survive and protect 
us
. ”

“Oh,
hmm. Cool. I 
like
 it. Hey, that makes me the 
hero
 of the story!”

“Not
so fast, you little shithead. You still screwed up royally by failing to scrub
the virus from the 
Dutchman
.”

“Well,
sure, but-”

“And
you got outwitted by the AI of the 
Valkyrie
.”

“Ok,
it’s not quite fair to completely blame that on-”

“
And
,
you are going to tell everyone that you later realized you were 
never
 in
danger, that 
Valkyrie’s
 AI 
wanted
 you to shut down the wormholes,
and that you fell for its trap because you are an arrogant, gullible ass.”

“Oh
man, 
really
? Jeez, I’d rather tell people the truth.”

“Boo
freakin’ 
hoo
. That is the truth, or close enough. The
truth is, what happened to me, and to both ships, is one hundred percent 
your

fault.”

“Ok,
Ok, Ok. Damn, I wish that AI 
had
 killed me. You’re going to hold this
secret over my head forever, aren’t you?”

“What
do 
you
 think?”

“Shit.
Yes. I 
hate
 my life.”

“One
more thing, please?”

“Ugh.
I am afraid to ask. What?”

“Do

not
 read any passages from Skippy’s Book of Revelations. Do not tell 
anyone
.”

“Um,
we have to tell them sometime, Joe. What I learned changes the purpose of our
whole mission out here!”

“Not
right now it doesn’t. Those bad AIs have been lurking around for millions of
years, they can wait for-”

“Unless
they 
can’t
 wait, Joe.”

“Uh,
why not?”

“
I

am active.”

“Ok,
but that’s just a coincidence, right. There’s no reason to think all you Elder
AIs set your wake-up alarms for the same year, or the same freakin’ 
century
.”

“We
do not 
have
 wake-up alarms. And you’re missing the point, dumdum. I have
been active and flying around doing shit like screwing with wormholes and
communicating with Guardians in the Roach Motel. Someone might have noticed,
you know?”

“Shit.
I hadn’t thought of that.”

“Egg-
zactly
. We have to-”

“After
we deal with the immediate problem. The, no, not the 
immediate
 
immediate
 problem. Earth, I mean. We need to pull as many
people as we can from Earth to the Beta site, then, oh, hell. I don’t know.
Then we can tackle the bigger issue.”

“Even
the Beta site won’t be safe, if a group of evil AIs wake up and attack the
entire galaxy. 
Plus
 the surrounding dwarf galaxies. No one will be
safe.”

“Ok,
point taken. That doesn’t change the facts. We have no reason to think an AI
attack is imminent, while Earth is in danger 
right now
. Uh!” I shushed
him. “You need our help, right?”

“Yes.”

“We
are a team?”

“Yes,”
he grumbled. “We are a team.”

“How’s
this: we will investigate,” I offered, having zero idea how we could do that.
“For signs that other Elder AIs are active, or are becoming active. We do that,
if we have time before the wormhole you moved is open.”

“Ok.
Fair enough, I guess. Joe, we need to tell the crew about this sometime. No way
can I keep this bottled up inside me for long. Someone is bound to guess that
I’m holding a huge secret. Nagatha will, for sure.”

“We
will tell everyone, soon. We can’t do it now, understood?”

“Yes.
What I don’t understand is 
why
.”

Sometimes,
for all his vast intellect, he was a total moron about dealing with people.
“Think about it. If you say the microwormholes shut down, and I got captured,
at the 
same time
 that you had the huge revelation? No way will people
believe that is a coincidence. Trust me on this.”

“Ok.
Whatever you say, Joe. I owe you one. Or two. Or,” he sighed. “A billion.”

 

We
reviewed the details of the bullshit story he would tell, then Skippy broke in
with a warning. “The Commando dropships are two minutes out, Joe.”

“Thanks.
Are the lizards giving them any trouble?”

“No,”
he chuckled. “The 
Dutchman’s
 stealth field is projecting the image of a
Ruhar battleship. While pretending to be a Ruhar captain, Chang warned the
lizards that he would rain hellfire on their heads if they tried to interfere.
Two fighters tried to lift off from an airbase anyway, because lizards are
terminally stupid. That airbase is now a smoking crater. Hey, good news: the 
Dutchman’s

new railguns work great!”

“Outstanding.
I’m going to bury this phone in the mud. Remember, we never talked.”

“Gotcha,
Joe.”

“Wait.
One more thing, Skippy?”

“Ugh.
Another?”

“Yes.
You have to act like your usual, asshole self. Joking around, insulting people,
all that. Otherwise, the crew will suspect something serious happened, instead
of you just screwing up like our cover story.”

“It
will be a struggle, but,” he sighed. “I will try, Joe.”

 

 

The
Commando team’s Dodo came straight in, its belly jets throwing up a hurricane
of spray, mud and charred vegetation, while a Dragon flew high cover, its
weapons pods ready for trouble. I crouched, shielding my ears and eyes until
the lower-pitched whine told me the dropship’s engines were at idle.

The
back ramp was already open, Fabron and three others were standing guard and
waving at me to hurry. That was easier said than done. Two of them met me
halfway, held me under my arms and carried me easily with their powered armor.
My feet barely touched the front of the ramp when the ship lifted off. With
help, I got into a seat and strapped in.

Seated
opposite me, Fabron raised his faceplate, the others of his team did the same.
“It is good,” he looked away as his voice choked up a bit. “To see you again,
Sir.”

“It
is good to see all of you,” I assured the team.

“I’m
going to check your vitals, Sir,” a woman seated beside me said, as she raised
a medical scanner and pointed it at me.

My
brain was tired, and the Commandos were still not familiar to me, so I glanced
at her mech suit. The chest plate read ‘US Army’ and ‘Raven, Destiny SSGT’. “Sure,
Staff Sergeant,” I let my head sag back against the seat. “I can tell you right
now, I have not been eating enough vegetables.”

That
made her laugh. “We’ll get you fixed up, Sir. Your hands look ugly,” she peered
at them with concern.

“
Overflash
 from the maser cannon,” I explained. “I’m alive,
so I can’t complain.”

“Let
me look at your leg. Ooh,” I winced as she peeled away my makeshift bandage,
from where a splinter had dug into my calf muscle. “It, looks infected?”

“Just
my luck to get stranded on a planet where the native life is biocompatible with
humans,” I rubbed the back of my neck, which was covered with insect bites. On
most worlds, insects didn’t consider humans to be tasty, but the little buggers
on Rikers had acquired a taste for Joe Bishop. They had tormented me whenever I
tried to sleep.

“Hmm,”
she sprayed a numbing solution on my legs, then cut away the bandage, stiff
from dried blood. “This is not too bad. I’ll just wrap it for now. This
infection may be the source of your fever.”

“I
have a fever?” I automatically felt my forehead and regretted 
it,
 my scaled hands hurt to touch anything.

“One-oh-one,”
she told me. “We can take care of that, too. Sir, I’m going to put an ointment
on your burns,” she warned me, holding up a bottle of some mysterious stuff. Raven
was the Commando team’s medic, until we shanghaied them, now she was learning
advanced medicine from Mad Doctor Skippy. “This will sting a bit, then it will
go numb.”

“Ow!
Ow, shit,” I shivered, feeling suddenly cold. “A 
bit
?”

“Sorry,”
she shrugged. “When we get back to the 
Dutchman
, I can apply a flexible
bandage to encourage regrowth of your skin.”

“Whatever
you say, Doc. Uh, hey,” I looked at her nametag again. “Your name is really
‘Destiny’?”

“Yes,”
she replied with a forced smile. “Go ahead, Sir, I’ve heard all the stripper
jokes.”

“Uh,”
right then, I couldn’t think of any jokes about strippers. Or jokes about
anything else. “Sorry, it’s none of my business.”

“My
mother has a warped sense of humor,” she explained, and that time the smile was
genuine.

“That
name must get used in a lot of cheesy pick-up lines,” I said. I just couldn’t
stop talking, the filter between my brain and my mouth must have been switched
off.

She
laughed. “You have 
no
 idea. Can we get you anything to eat, Colonel?” Raven
asked, glancing at the scanner, then peering closely into my eyes with concern.

“Real
food would be great. No,” I waved a hand as she dug into a pack. “I should get
checked out aboard the 
Dutchman
 before I eat anything.”

“That
is,” Raven’s look of concern turned to amusement, she was struggling not to
laugh and losing the battle. “Probably a good idea.”

“What’s
so funny, Staff Sergeant?” I asked as Fabron glared at her.

“It’s
nothing, Sir. It’s just, you look, here,” she held up her zPhone, with the
screen in its mirror mode.

I
saw what she meant. Not my dirty, scarred, bruised and scalded skin. Not the
blood-shot eyes. Not how gaunt and pasty I looked. What she found amusing was
that I was missing a stripe of hair in the middle of my head, front to back.
The hair on both sides was shaggy, but in the middle was only a faint stubble.
“Yeah,” was all I could say.

“That,
uh,” her shoulders were shaking, and even Fabron had to look away so he didn’t
burst out laughing. “That is an, 
interesting 
hairstyle, Sir.”

“Joe
got a 
No
-Hawk,” Skippy announced with a giggle. “Soon that fashion will
be all the rage, or that’s what he thinks.”

“It’s,
uh,” she took a photo of me and handed me the phone. 

Damn,
I looked like absolute shit. I knew she had mentioned the haircut to distract
me from the pain. “I’ve had worse photos taken at the DMV,” I shrugged.

“You
just, um,” Raven giggled. “You shouldn’t use that as your profile photo on
Tinder. Just 
sayin
’, huh?”

Her
laugh was infectious, I had to join in. “I will keep that in mind.”

“Sir?”
Fabron held out a blue baseball cap. It had ‘UNS Valkyrie CC-01’ above the
brim, in gold stitching.

“Thanks,”
I tugged it on my head, grateful for his thoughtfulness. I expected to be
wearing a hat for a while. Resting my head back, I closed my eyes.

 

“How
is he?” Fabron asked quietly.

Raven
glanced again at the medical scanner. “Malnutrition, like he said. A low-grade
fever. He is beginning to get 
scurvy
,
 I haven’t
seen that except in textbooks. The burns are second-degree, they will heal. What
I don’t understand is the result of the brain scan. This thing,” she waved the
scanner, “isn’t super accurate for that type of analysis, but he has lesions on
his brain. This is not good news.”

“It
is a concern,” Skippy said, with no trace of his usual snarkiness. “The
Thuranin were not gentle with him, and the countermeasures I used made it
worse. Right now, he needs rest. Oh, Joe,” he sighed. “I’m sorry. I am truly
sorry.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TEN

 

While
the Commandos exfiltrated Bishop, the STAR team had their own mission. Sensor
data collected by the 
Flying Dutchman
 determined that two Thuranin were still
alive on the planet. They were pilots, whose dropship had been blown up in
Skippy’s initial round of strikes. It would have been nice for the Merry Band
of Pirates, and safer for everyone involved, if the pilots had stayed in their
assigned bunker. Unfortunately, the Thuranin for some reason did not trust the
hospitality of their clients, so they had left the bunker, shot several
Kristang, and stolen a beat-up old lizard dropship. It was not known what the
pilots planned to do, or if they even had a plan at all. Without a friendly
ship in orbit, they weren’t going anywhere, and their Dragon was headed south
toward a sparsely-inhabited area of the continent.

“They
are low on fuel,” Skippy reported. “Cannons only, they are Winchester on
missiles. Also, that spacecraft was not considered flightworthy, the squawk
list is a mile long. The portside engine is overheating, the rear ramp doors
don’t fully seal. 
Ugh
, I guess they didn’t have a choice. Maybe they-”

Smythe
cut off his rambling dialog. “Can 
you
 glitch the
aircraft remotely, force them to land?”

“Um,
no. Sorry, I am experiencing a temporary awesomeness deficit. Screwing with a
rifle targeting system is relatively simple, but if I hack into that Dragon’s
flight controls, the pilots will know they have been compromised. If this goes
sideways, we need to maintain the cover story that we are an Alien Legion unit.”

“Right,”
Smythe tugged tighter the straps holding him into the seat. “We do this the
hard way, then. 
Pilot,
 hold fire until we are within
forty kilometers. I want to follow them down to the crash site.”

 

When
the two Dragons from the 
Flying Dutchman
 were within forty kilometers of
the target, the enemy still had not reacted. Their stolen dropship was flying
at a speed and altitude for maximum efficiency, stretching their dwindling fuel
supply for greater range. “No sign we have been detected,” the pilot of
Smythe’s dropship reported.

“Launch
missile,” Smythe ordered from the jumpseat on the rear bulkhead of the cockpit.

“Fox
One,” the pilot said in a calm voice, and the Dragon rocked gently side to side
as a missile was ejected out the launch tube, the door closing and another
missile automatically queuing up for launch. “We have never done this, Sir,”
the pilot turned to look at Smythe.

“There
is a first time for everything,” the STAR team leader said 
assuringly
,
while keeping focus on the missile’s track. “Maintain stealth until the missile
is within ten kilometers.”

 

When
the flight path and targeting instructions were downloaded into the missile,
the immediate reaction of its upgraded but still rudimentary Kristang AI was a
baffled ‘
WTF
’? the second reaction was ‘This is 
bullshit
’.

The
third reaction, after a stern lecture from the annoying Elder AI called
‘Skippy’, was a resigned shrug. Perhaps Skippy was right. Any missile could
kill a defenseless, slow-flying target. To knock the dropship out of the sky,
while ensuring the survival of the two-person crew, was much more difficult.

Still,
it sucked. Missiles were supposed to 
kill
, that’s what they 
did
.

Against
all the instincts carefully programmed into its tiny brain, the missile was
being urged to be 
gentle
.

Riiiiiiiiight
, it thought. Maybe I can-

A ping
from Skippy jerked it back onto course.

Screw
it, the missile thought. You want gentle? Fine, but I’m doing this 
my

way.

 

As
it approached the target, the missile pulsed its active sensors, supposedly to verify
the range. In reality, it spooked the two little green pinheads who were flying
the dropship, and they went to full power, pulling the nose up and popping out
decoys.

Now
 this is interesting, the missile chuckled
with satisfaction.

Casually
increasing its speed, the missile set its warhead on standby. The instructions
for the attack were to approach from aft and below detonating its warhead in a
cone-shaped fragmentation mode, at the lowest power setting. The shrapnel would
tear into the engines and belly jets, while leaving the cockpit unharmed.
Without belly jets, and with no runway in the area, the pilots would be forced
to eject. It was the most effective way to accomplish the objective and it was
boring. The attack plan was 
dull
, it had no 
imagination
. No 
style
.

Instead,
the missile increased speed when it was within two kilometers, racing in toward
the randomly twisting target. It was not fooled by the decoys 
being ejected,
 the unbalanced engines of the target were
making enough electromagnetic noise that a blind man could have found it.

At
the last second, as the missile bored in and Skippy screamed dire and useless
threats, the missile shed its wings and fired 
thrusters

so it skidded across the sky to fly 
backward
, its hot tail slamming into
the dropship between the main engines. The dropship staggered as the missile
buried itself backward, crashing through pipes and wires and bulkheads until
its crumpled rear half was projecting through the ceiling of the aft cabin.

Huh,
the missile thought. So 
this
 is what the inside of these things looks
like. I am not impressed. Well, I hate to leave so soon, but-

Explosive
bolts blew the front third of the missile loose, and it fell away from the
downward-spiraling dropship. When the warhead had fallen three kilometers away,
the missile’s tiny brain pinged Skippy. ‘What did you think of 
that
?’

‘I
think you are a 
jackass
,’ the Elder AI shot back. ‘But you’ve got style.
Gotta give you props for that.’

‘Thanks,
Grandpa’, the missile teased. ‘Bye’.

Its
warhead exploded spectacularly, directing the force upward, away from any of
the three dropships in the area.

 

“Skippy,”
Smythe asked tersely. “What the bloody hell was 
that
?”

“Just
a bit of freelancing,” the AI mumbled, embarrassed. “It won’t happen again.”

“See
that it doesn’t.”

“Colonel?”
The pilot called. “The quarry is ejecting.”

 

The
Thuranin pilots, having quickly analyzed the situation, concluded that:

        
-their
spacecraft was no longer airworthy,

        
-their lowly
Kristang clients had 
shot
 at them,

        
-landing the dropship was not an
option, and

 
-they were probably fucked anyway,

and
decided their best option was to eject. So, they did.

Their
seats rocketed out and away, after a brief delay caused by shoddily-built and
poorly-maintained Kristang technology. If they had been flying a proper
Thuranin craft, they could have communicated with the seat computers via their
cyborg brain implants, but they had to settle for trying to use the confusing
manual controls built into the keypad. Keypads that were old, worn, scratched,
barely visible in sunlight, and displaying Kristang symbols that appeared to
have no relation to the functioning of the icons they represented.

The
lead pilot discovered that fact to her dismay, when her urgent and increasingly
angry tapping of the screen resulted not in steering the oversized parachute,
but in the straps that held her into the swaying seat releasing. The seat
reached the end of its pendulum-like swing at the end of the parachute tether,
and was yanked in the opposite direction, while the lead pilot’s body continued
its momentum out into empty air. 
Windmilling
 her arms
and legs, she managed to tangle a foot in a dangling cord, which only got her
to swinging back and forth far more violently than the seat itself.

Her
mass, at the end of the cord, set up a rhythm that transmitted up through the
seat into the tether, confusing the parachute computer. The seat’s occupant
had, for some unknown but certainly idiotic reason, decided to unstrap and get
out in midair. The seat was empty, yet a weight equivalent to the previous
occupant was still tugging on the tether. The computer had a decision to make,
a decision which its tiny brain was not capable of fully analyzing. Normally,
with loss of the occupant, the parachute would sever its tether, allowing the
seat to plunge to the ground, while the parachute itself dissolved into flakes
of dirty soot. Could the former occupant somehow be under the seat, and if so,
was it alive? The parachute computer, with its limited and very old sensors,
had no way of knowing what was under the seat or what was causing the wild
swinging back and forth.

Without
information, it had no basis on which to make a decision.

So
it defaulted to not deciding at all. Its last instruction was to lower the seat
safely to the ground, and it continued doing that.

The
lead pilot, a female with the designation Dubyadee-40, frantically tried to get
a grasp of the cord that her foot was entangled in. Every time she managed to
contort herself to get a hand near the foot that was going numb, the seat swung
the other way and the cord jerked her to a stop, nearly snapping her oversized
head. After a dozen swings back and forth, she began to lose consciousness, and
she flopped down limp at the end of the cord.

As
the seat fell closer to the ground, the wind slackened and the wild motions of
the seat stabilized, from the parachute computer using a small canister of cold
gas to power the seat’s thruster nozzles. That safety feature was designed to provide
a stable platform, so the parachute could lower the seat and its occupant accurately
to a landing.

Using
the thrusters was a good idea, if it had worked. If the maintenance teams who
serviced the aircraft had bothered to check the thruster nozzles, they would
have seen that a species of wasps native to the planet had built their little
mud nests in three of the nozzles, clogging them quite effectively. When
instructions sent to the thruster unit failed to produce the desired result, the
parachute computer sent the command again, and 
again
. The third time was
the charm. The build-up of pressure in the thruster lines blew out the plugs of
hardened mud, an action that sent the seat rocketing to one side, exactly what
computer did
 not
 want to happen. With the supply of thruster gas
exhausted, there was nothing the computer could do about the gyrations of the
seat or the alarming tension on the tether.

Dubyadee’s
 eyes fluttered open when she became momentarily
weightless, the seat having swung so far to one side that the tether was 
slack
 and the cord wrapped around her foot had sent her
soaring 
above
 the seat. For a split-second, she was weightless before
she smacked into the seat, breaking her other leg and dropping her over the
side again. The pressure when she jerked to a stop at the end of the cord tore
tendons in her knee and ankle, and the pain was enough for her cyborg implants
to block signals to her brain. With cold logic and head kept clear by
artificial glands pumping out chemicals to keep her alert and calm, she noted
that running away to evade capture would not be an option. That problem could
wait until she hit the ground.

The

immediate
 problem were the trees reaching up for her as the seat continued
its uncontrolled fall. Without pain to distract her, she twisted her upper body
out of the way of a stout tree limb looming in front of her, got smacked in the
face by a branch full of thick, sticky leaves, then fell straight down for the
first time. Above her, the parachute tether had become wound around several
tree branches and the seat crashed into a trunk, sending bark and shards of
splinters to pelt her. None of the splinters penetrated her flightsuit and she relaxed
as the ground rushed up toward her, making air explode from her lungs as she
impacted harder than expected.

Alive.

She
was injured, but down and alive. That was a relief after her ordeal.

 

Above
the trees, the parachute control computer also experienced relief. Its sensors
detected that there was no longer any extra mass weighing down the seat.

Therefore
the previous occupant must be gone.

Therefore,
the computer did not need to be concerned about proper procedure under
ambiguous circumstances, it knew exactly what it was supposed to do.

The
computer severed the tether that connected the parachute to the seat.

 

On
the leaf-littered floor of the forest, Dubyadee-40’s relief turned to a very
brief flash of terror, as the heavy ejection seat fell straight down on top of
her.

 

“Shit!”
Captain Frey cursed. “Target Bravo life signs terminated.”

“Are
you sure?” Smythe called, the sound of his voice slightly muffled by the
whistling of air rushing past his helmet at high speed.

“Yeah,
that LGMF is dead,” Skippy reported. “I thought ejection seats are supposed to
be life-
saving
 equipment?”

Smythe
ignored the irrelevant remark. “Acknowledged. Frey, converge on my position.”

“It’s
no good, Sir,” she added with a grunt as her parachute balloon deployed and her
headlong flight was brought to a stop. “We’ll be on the ground in twenty seconds.”

“Use
your best judgment,” Smythe also grunted. “We will flush the quarry toward you
if we can.”

“Understood,”
Frey said, and focused on getting herself and her team down through the tree
canopy. Her STAR team was spread out to surround the spot where the Thuranin
pilot had landed, cutting off escape routes. “Ow, shit,” she cursed as she
smacked an armored knee into a tree, temporarily blind as thick leaves rushed
past her helmet faceplate. All she saw was a blur of dark green.

Then
she was on the ground, rolling to protect her rifle. The parachute tether
automatically snapped and disintegrated, along with the balloon itself, blowing
away as a cloud of silvery dust.

“Team
Bravo, check in,” she ordered to follow procedure, though her helmet visor
informed her that the three others on her team were also down, alive and well.
They had the same info available through the team tactical link, yet they also
followed procedure with pings indicating their status was green. “We will confirm
status of the target first. Huang, you’re with me. 
Karak

and 
Jauffret
, provide cover.”

Huang
was first to get direct line-of-sight to the target, or what was left of it.

Frey
came up behind him, sighting through her rifle’s scope. “
That
 doesn’t
look good.”

“I’ve
never seen a Thuranin for real, Ma’am,” he whispered.

“Me
neither. I do know they are not supposed to look like that.”

Warily,
despite Skippy’s assurance that the target had zero neural activity, they
approached, fingers poised just above their trigger guards, ready to take
action.

No
action was necessary. Huang poked the 
Thuranin’s

cracked helmet with the muzzle of his rifle. “I’m pretty sure this one is 
dead
.”

Frey
suppressed a ‘
Ya
 think?’ response. “Team, our
objective is secured. Dead, but secure. Let’s go assist Team Alpha.”

 

Team
Alpha actually, though Smythe would have been reluctant to admit it, did need
assistance. Their target had remained in his ejection seat and landed unharmed,
other than a few bruises. Since the STAR team landed, the alien had stubbornly
refused to cooperate, dashing away and firing bursts of guided ammunition from
a rifle.

“Damn!”
Major Kapoor exclaimed as the alien popped up from cover, let fly half-dozen
guided rounds, and dropped down to scurry away. The rounds went over Kapoor’s
head as he flattened on the ground, impacting trees and exploding to send
showers of sharp wood splinters pinging off his armor. “That little fucker is 
fast

for his size.”

“The
Thuranin are cyborgs,” Smythe reminded his team. “They have
genetically-enhanced musculature, and their nerve network is boosted by
implants. Their glands can produce something like adrenaline on command. Do not
be fooled by their size. Zhou!” he shouted, as that soldier was struck by a
round from the enemy.

“I’m
all right,” Zhou said, shaking her head. She had been thrown backward when the
round struck the chest armor near her left shoulder.

“You
are not 
fine
,” Smythe scolded. He appreciated enthusiasm, but not
foolishness. “Your left arm motor mechanism is jammed. Hold your position.”

“But,”
she protested, struggling to her feet. “I can-”

“Hold
your position. Team Alpha, we need to take this one 
alive
. Let him
expend all his ammo, then we move in.”

“Good
strategy,” Skippy said. “My estimate is he only has thirty-eight rounds in that
magazine. Plus another sixty-two rounds in the spare magazine he is probably
carrying. Unless he brought more magazines with him, you know.”

“Bloody
wonderful,” Smythe muttered under his breath. “Do you have any more good news
for us?”

“That
type of rifle carries three rockets, and he hasn’t used any yet, so be careful,
please. Oh, also, he may have grenades with him. Ooh, and-”

“Team
Alpha,” Smythe interrupted the AI’s speculation. “We have rockets also, let’s
use them. Bracket his position, maintain a safe distance. I want the target
pinned down and confused. Do 
not
 fire unless you can be sure to avoid
striking the target.” He paused. “I know, that is easier said than done.”

“Smythe,”
Chang called. “How’s it going down there?”

The
STAR team leader knew Chang had access to the same 
taclink

data feed Smythe had in his helmet. The 
Flying Dutchman’s
 captain was
not calling for a status report, he wanted to know what Smythe thought. “It
would be simpler if we could 
shoot
 this little bugger, Sir,” Smythe
admitted. “That cheeky bugger is taking potshots at us.”

“If
we wanted him dead, we could have hit the site from orbit. Is capture
practical, without risking your team?”

“Everything
is a 
risk
, Sir.”

“There
are degrees of risk, Smythe.”

“We
can do this,” Smythe insisted. “Once the target is out of ammunition, we can
move in and use stun grenades,” he suggested, though they had only Skippy’s
word that the grenades would be effective against the cyborg.

Chang
did not answer immediately. “I do not like having your team exposed on the
ground. A Thuranin ship could jump in at any moment. You have ten minutes, then
you need to dust off and get back here. Bishop has been recovered and is 
enroute
.”

“Understood,
Sir.”

 

The
help provided by Frey’s Team Bravo was, in fact, no help at all. The lone
Thuranin must have sensed the arrival of additional enemy soldiers, from either
tracking backscatter from the helmet-to-helmet laserlinks, or just from the
increased volume of fire. The downed pilot still thought he was being attacked
by Kristang, for the hostiles flew Kristang dropships, wore Kristang powered
armor, and fired Kristang rifles with Kristang ammunition. There were anomalies,
such as the short stature of the attackers, but perhaps he was being tracked by
young warriors who desired to boast about capturing one of their hated patrons.
That the soldiers, who surrounded him in an ever-tighter circle, wanted to take
him alive, had become obvious. The enemy tactics made no sense otherwise. All
their fire was directed to keep him pinned down rather than to kill. If his
death was the goal, the attackers could have launched an air-to-ground missile.

No.
They wanted to capture him.

Captivity
was preferable to death. He would only be a prisoner until his people arrived
to pound the Kristang into submission. If he could hold off the Kristang until-

 

Smythe
noted that the enemy fire had slackened, then ceased. The Thuranin had not
fired a round in thirty seconds, nor had he moved. Five minutes remained before
Chang’s deadline. “Should we move in?” Frey asked.

“No,”
Smythe knew the plan was working. Working too well. According to his count, the
Thuranin pilot had half a magazine of rifle ammo, plus a rocket, and an unknown
number of grenades. The STARs had suffered two injuries, both serious enough to
render those soldiers combat-ineffective. “Team, stand by.” He bent down, dug
into the soil and picked up a rock the size of a football. The enemy’s position
was a hundred twenty meters away, the stone heavy. In his visor, he designated
where he wanted the rock to land, trusting the motors of his suit more than his
own eye-hand coordination. A quick heave while still behind cover sent the
stone soaring through the air. It crashed down, bounced and rolled toward the
enemy. If he had judged correctly, its momentum would carry it-

There
was an explosion, multiple explosions, and a fountain of dirt combined with
shards of shattered tree trunks.

“Bloody
hell,” Smythe slumped to his knees. “Skippy?”

“He’s
dead, Jim. Whew! 
Hee
 hee, I have 
always
 wanted
to say that!”

“Please
be serious.”

“Ah,
crap. Scratch one pinhead. That is one crispy critter. He triggered off his
rocket warheads, to avoid the enemy examining his 
cyberbetic

implants.”

Smythe
knew the enemy must have thought the bouncing and crashing of the stone was a
soldier approaching, and took his own life. The pride of the Thuranin did not
allow for capture by inferior beings. Smythe let fly a creative string of expletives
with his helmet microphone switched off. Then, “That’s it, then, we buggered
that.”

“Not
necessarily,” Skippy announced cheerily.

“We
were supposed to take them 
alive
,” Smythe protested. “We failed.”

“First,
your task was extremely difficult. The one who blew himself up is in tiny
pieces, true, but-”

Smythe
was disgusted with himself. “They are both dead.”

“Ah.
There you are wrong. The other one is only 
mostly
 dead.”

“Mostly
dead?”

“That’s
what I said. Fortunately for you, Miracle Max is on the job. I advise you to
get back to Target Bravo, and hurry.”

 

“He
looks dead to me,” Smythe crouched by the small, broken form, trapped under the
ejection seat.

“
She

is dead,” Skippy snorted. “Quick, one of you go through her pockets for loose
change, while somebody else cuts her head off.”

Jeremy
Smythe, a battle-hardened veteran, flinched. “Cut her head off? Skippy, we do
not desecrate the bodies of-”

“This
isn’t for fun. She has cranial implants. I can scan them to recover her
memories, 
if
 you bring her head back to the ship, and 
if
 you
hurry before the circuits degrade.”

“Right.
Shit.” Smythe slung his rifle, pulled out a wickedly-sharp knife and knelt
beside the body. “Were you serious about searching her pockets?”

“
Ugh
.
No, that is a line from- Jeremy, when you get back to the ship, you really need
to watch a movie with me. Your pop culture knowledge is 
woefully

lacking.”

 

 

Jennifer
Simms left the CIC under orders from Chang, to greet their commander and see
that he went directly to the medical bay. Lined up outside the docking bay were
an honor guard of three STARS and three Commandos, plus two pilots.

And
Margaret Adams, in full dress uniform.

“Adams,”
Simms crooked a finger at the gunnery sergeant. “A word?” She drew the other
woman aside, down the passageway just out of earshot. “What are you doing
here?”

Adams
blinked. With 
Valkyrie’s
 crew aboard the 
Dutchman
, Adams had not
been needed in the CIC. She had been at her designated damage control station
until the All Clear sounded, allowing the off-duty crew to get rest until their
next shift. “Ma’am? I am off-duty, I came here to represent-”

“You
came here to see Bishop,” Simms concluded flatly.

“Yes,”
Adams’s chin came up defiantly as she stiffened.

“That
is 
not
 happening,” Simms glared into the Marine’s eyes. “Go back to your
quarters, or go to the gym. Go anywhere but 
here
.”

“Colonel,
that is not-”

“Gunnery
Sergeant Adams,” Simms snapped. “Skippy informed us that Bishop is not only
worn out, injured and malnourished, he likely has undiagnosed brain damage from
his treatment by the Thuranin. I don’t have to tell 
you
 how challenging
that will be for him.”

“I
can give him-”

“What?
The only thing you can give Bishop right now is 
confusion
. Adams, this
on-again, off-again, will-they-or-won’t-they shit has to 
stop
, right
here,” she jabbed a finger at the deck. “Right now. Enough. You need to make up
your damned mind one way or another.” Simms knew she was being harsh, that
Adams deserved better. If there was time, she would have called the gunnery
sergeant to her office for a personal counseling session. As it was, the
dropship carrying Bishop was only minutes away from docking. “This isn’t some amusing
crush between two junior officers. Bishop is our 
commander
. He is the
only hope we have, the only hope for humanity.”

“Joe-”
Adams caught herself. “He said there is no hope for us.”

“You
believe that?” One side of Simms’s mouth cracked into a brief smile. “
Everything

we do is impossible, until 
he
 realizes
it isn’t. That’s why we need him to be sharp, focused and not moping around
like a puppy dog looking for affection.” She softened her voice. “You understand
that? The situation sucks, but this is what you both signed up to. You want to
help him? Don’t distract him, not now.”

“Yes,
Ma’am.”

“Gunny,
you’re doing good work with the children we rescued, 
good
 work. Do that,
until and unless you can commit to something else. You hear what I’m saying?”

“Yes.”

“Send
Bishop a message. You’re glad he’s back, tell him about the children, that sort
of thing. Keep it friendly but professional, and short. Not 
too
 short.”

“Yes.”

“You
don’t have to make up your mind 
today
. But you do have to decide what
you want. What is best, for both of you. This is not good for either of you, is
it?”

“No.”

That
was another one-word answer. Simms suppressed a sigh. She knew she was right,
so why didn’t it 
feel
 right? Every one of the crew knew about Bishop and
Adams, the old hands had known for years. Every one of the crew wanted them to
be happy. And every one of them knew it could not happen. Simms knew it 
should

not happen, not until the Pirates returned to Earth. They still had a mission to
complete, whatever Bishop decided the mission was.

There
wasn’t anything more to say. “Dismissed, Gunny.”

Adams
snapped a salute and turned away.

“Adams?”
Simms called after the Marine, who paused and looked back over her shoulder. “I
hope this works out for 
you,
 I really do. Just not 
now
.”

“I
understand, Ma’am.” Her shoulders heaved as she took in a deep breath. “Thank
you.”

 

 

Staff
Sergeant Raven gently nudged me awake as we approached the ship, and at 
first
 I stared stupidly at her, Fabron, Greene and the other
Commandos, wondering why all these people were in my bedroom. Then I
remembered, and wished I hadn’t. When we docked aboard the 
Dutchman
,
Simms greeted me. “Simms, I appreciate your concern, but,” I looked down at
myself. “I really want to get cleaned up first, this time I really 
am
 a
filthy monkey.”

“
Oooh
, bad news, Joe,” Skippy’s voice boomed out of the
docking bay speakers. “While you were away, your shower filed for a restraining
order.”

The
Commandos studiously looked away, but I could tell some of them were laughing
silently.

“That’s,
great, Skippy.” I felt like strangling him yet again. “Seriously, Simms, I will
feel a whole lot better if I can get out of these grungy clothes.”

“That,”
she looked me over from head to toe. “
Is
 an interesting outfit.”

“Joe
is wearing part of this year’s Apocalypse line,” Skippy snickered. “Wait, what am
I saying? He would never wear 
this
 year’s fashion. Seriously, Joe, did
you get that outfit all from one dumpster, or did you shop around?”

Before
my tired brain could think of a snappy reply, or any reply at all, Simms gave
me the side-eye. “Sir, you look like shit.”

“Thanks
for the honesty. However I look, I 
feel
 worse.”

“All
the more reason for Doctor Skippy to get you fixed up. I will bring a change of
clothes to the medical bay.”

“How,
uh, how is the crew?” I asked, in what I intended to be a casual fashion.

“The

crew
,” she looked at me sideways. Busted. She knew I was asking about
Margaret Adams. “Is busy. You can get an update, after Skippy clears you.”

Too
tired and worn out to argue any longer, I nodded, and was immediately hustled
through passageways to the 
Dutchman’s
 medical center.

 

In one
of the medical bays, Skippy used some machine to run a scan on me. “You need to
take off your hat,” he warned.

My
hand paused on the brim of the baseball cap. “Simms, I have to warn you, the
Thuranin sort of shaved my head.”

“I
was wondering about the hat.” She knew I hadn’t brought it with me from Rikers.
“Is it that bad?” She asked, when I made no move to take the hat off.

“They
shaved the middle of my head, front to back,” I admitted sheepishly. “Skippy
calls it,” I lifted the hat. “A 
No
-hawk.”

“Sir,
I pity the fool who laughs at your haircut,” she frowned, but her eyes
twinkled.

We
fist-bumped to acknowledge her mastery of pop culture. “XO, thanks for the vote
of confidence. Let’s get this over with, Skippy.”

“Hmm.
Hmm,” his avatar said while wearing a white lab coat. “Good news: the brain
scan is not as bad as I feared. However, I need a closer look at your throat, there’s
some damage in there from what the Thuranin did to you. The procedure is
called,” a robot came out of a wall, holding a long flexible tube, “an
endoscopy. It’s just slightly different from a colonoscopy.”

“
Slightly
?”
I tried to get away from the robot, but the bed was too narrow.

“Well,
it-”

“One
of them goes in your mouth, the other goes-”

“I
know where it goes, Joe.”

“If
you think that is only a 
slight
 difference, I want a new doctor.”

“
Ugh
,
you monkeys are so-”

“Sir,”
Simms had a hand over her mouth and her shoulders were shaking. It wasn’t clear
whether she was laughing with me, or at me. “It looks like you’re in good hands
here, I-”

“Good
hands?” I pointed to just two of the scary-looking medical 
torturebots

clustered around me. “I want to get far away from the witch doctor here,” I
said, jerking a thumb at Skippy’s avatar.

“You
think I am a 
witch
 doctor?” He screeched, outraged.

Simms
backed out of the compartment, holding up her hands. “You two need to work this
out. Have fun, Sir.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER ELEVEN

 

The
two Dragons carrying the STAR teams returned to the 
Flying Dutchman
, and
the ship jumped as soon as the docking clamps engaged. “Skippy?” Smythe called even
before he unstrapped from his seat.

“Yeah,
yeah, working on it,” the AI mumbled distractedly. “The good news is, that
little green pinhead did not expect to get squashed by the ejection seat, so she
didn’t have time to engage the subroutine to wipe her memory implants. Or, she
figured the lizards couldn’t crack the encryption anyway, so there was no point
to wiping the memory.”

“What
is the bad news?” Smythe released the straps but remained seated, with the bag
containing a severed head on his lap.

“The
bad news is, the data is 
totally
 scrambled. The implants are unique to
each person, they adapt to the individual user’s neural architecture. That is a
problem, because to read the data stored in the implants, I need to create a
map of her brain, and figure out how it worked.”

“Ah.
That is why you needed me to bring her head aboard, instead of digging implants
out of her skull.”

“Exactly.
I know, yuck. It doesn’t feel right to me either, but there is no other way to
extract her memories.”

“Just
get it done, please.”

“Working
on it. Um, it might help both of us if you put her head in a refrigerator. 
Not

in the galley, please. Simms would kill me if I suggested that.”

 

Smythe
stashed the duffel bag with the severed head in a temperature-controlled locker
of the docking bay’s control center, and tried to forget about it while he
walked down to the section of the ship that was set aside for the STAR team.
And for the Commandos, he reminded himself when he saw Fabron and his people getting
their gear squared away. “Major,” he acknowledged Fabron. “How is Bishop?”

Fabron
nodded toward the Commando team’s medic. “Raven says he will be fine. He is in
the medical bay now.” Lowering his voice, he added “There is a possibility of
brain damage from the interrogation techniques employed by the Thuranin.”

“Did
you run into any issues?”

“No,”
the French officer shook his head. “You?”

“Both
of the Thuranin we were supposed to recover alive, were killed. One was an
accident before we arrived at the scene. The other killed himself as we closed
in,” Smythe defended the actions of his team, until he realized he was making
excuses.

Fabron
looked away, suddenly finding a fault with the way he had stowed away his own
gear. “It was a difficult tasking,” he 
said
 “We can’t
take someone alive, if they are determined to kill themselves.”

Smythe
shrugged. “It is not a total 
loss,
 Skippy believes he
can recover memories from the dead.”

Fabron
snorted. “Is he conducting a seance, or using tarot cards?”

“Hey!”
The AI objected. “For your information, I am using 
science
, something
you monkeys would not understand.”

“Is
this science producing any useful results,” Smythe asked. “Or are you wasting
time?”

“Huh.
Well, I should not dignify that remark with a reply, but so you know, I just
finished discussing my findings with Colonel Chang.”

That
irritated Smythe. “You couldn’t tell us at the same time?”

“Well,

excuse
 me for wanting to give you time to clean up in peace. Um, which
reminds me, you’ve got something on the outside of your suit’s right forearm.
No, it’s, twist the other way. There, see it?”

“Yes,”
Smythe took a rag and wiped away what appeared to be part of the Thuranin
pilot. While the armor would be thoroughly cleaned and serviced by the ship’s
robotic maintenance team, he believed in caring for his own equipment. “Answer
the question, please.”

“The
answer is, that pilot did not have any information that could be dangerous to
us. She only knew what she had been told by the pinheads who interrogated Joe,
I mean, Colonel Bishop. They bought the cover story that the raid was conducted
by an Alien Legion unit, though they did note several discrepancies with that
story. Also, right up to the point when the ejection seat fell on her, she
believed she was being pursued by lizards. She had no clue that humans were involved.”

“That
is good,” Smythe expressed his relief.

“Yes,
except all you did was confirm what I already
 told
 you,” Skippy sniffed.

“Pardon
us,” Fabron made a rude gesture toward the ceiling, “for not trusting you are
infallible.”

“Hey!
I never said I was- OK, well, maybe I did 
imply
, but- Ugh. Stupid monkeys.”

Smythe
flashed a grin at the Commando leader. “Skippy, I need you to research
something for me.”

“What,
I am your Google now?”

“I
will ignore that remark. This is serious. Please tell me, what are Thuranin
customs regarding proper disposition of a corpse?” To Fabron he added “I need
to know what to do with the severed head we brought aboard.”

“Severed

head
?” Fabron closed his locker. “
This
 story, I need to hear.”

 

 

“Well?”
I asked Mad Doctor Skippy about two hours later. Everything hurt. Even my eyelids
hurt, from the strain of keeping my eyes open. All I wanted to do right then
was fall into a bed and sleep for several days. Before I could do that, I had
to hear Skippy’s diagnosis of my condition, and what we could do to repair the
damage done by the Thuranin. “You have run every test possible.”

“Not

every
 test, Joe. There might be a need for a few more tests later.”

“More
tests? Why? Does the doctor need to make a payment on his Ferrari?”

“Very
funny. Seriously, Dude, it is mostly good news. All the physical damage can heal
by itself, or with a little help. You need rest, proper nutrition, physical
therapy and most of all, 
time
.”

“You
won’t get an argument from me about any of that. What about my,” I tapped my
head, “noggin? Everything OK in there?”

“Everything
is 
not
 OK in there. The quachines I used 
were

very targeted, you may find you have lost some minor childhood memories, or not
be able to multiply seven times seven, but there-”

“Forty-nine,”
I said, but I had to think about it first. Was I always like that?

“That
was just an example. My point is, the quachines did not do any important,
lasting damage to vital areas of your cerebral cortex. When I placed the
quachines in your head, I positioned them specifically to avoid-”

“When
did you do that? Put those things in my head?”

“Just
before you and I went to visit that broken Sentinel in the Roach Motel. There
was a possibility that we might lose the ability to communicate via normal
channels, so-”

“What
possibility?”

“Well,”
his avatar squirmed uncomfortably. “For example, if the Sentinel had activated
its-”

“
Activated
?”
My voice went up so high, I didn’t recognize it. “You told me that thing was 
dead
.”

“It

was
 dead, Joe. In this spacetime. Since I couldn’t be sure whether its
higher-level mechanism was also disabled-”

“Oh.
My. God.” Thinking about that nightmarish thing made me shudder. “Hell, I
wouldn’t have come anywhere near that thing if you had told me-”

“Hence
why I didn’t tell you, dumdum. If I had told you, I would be dead, and you
would still be stuck in the Roach Motel. And by the way, all the humans on
Paradise would be dead from an engineered bioweapon, 
and
 Earth would have
been bombarded into radioactive slag by a pair of Maxolhx warships.”

“Um,
hmm. Good point.”

“You
can thank me later,” he sniffed.

“Do

not
 do that again,” I wagged a finger at him.

“That
was a one-time thing. It only happened because, if you remember, I was stuck in
this canister and couldn’t access higher-level spacetime. If we encounter a
Sentinel in the future, I will be able to thoroughly examine it, in every
dimension.”

“Get
back to the subject, please. You put quachines in my head back then to-”

“Ugh.
The subject is the 
current
 status of your brain, not some history
lesson.”

“OK.
Whatever.” There was no point yelling at him about it. He had been right about
taking the risk to approach the Sentinel, and he had been right about secretly
putting super-
sciency
 
nanobugs

in my brain.

“
Hmmf
,” he sniffed, expecting me to argue. When I didn’t, he
continued. “Bottom line is, there is no critical damage in your cerebral
cortex.”

“I
feel fine. Up there, I mean,” I tapped my temple with a finger, except I missed
and poked my eye. “Some headaches, that’s it.”

“Joe,
you haven’t seen yourself. Your eye-hand coordination is off. You walk like
you’re drunk. Look at yourself in the mirror. That expression is your Resting 
Shitface
.”

“Resting

Shitface
?” I laughed.

“You
know, like, people have a ‘Resting Bitchface’ when no one is looking. Right
now, you look like you drank a whole bottle of tequila and you are totally
shitfaced.”

The
mirror did not lie. He was right. My face sagged, my eyelids were puffy, my jaw
slumped open until I thought about it and pulled it up. Then it slumped open
again. No question about it; I was a mess. “Ok, yuck. Patch me up, Doc.”

“Do
what?”

“You
know. Do your thing. Give me 
nanomeds
 like you did
for Adams.” Hearing myself say her name, I wondered why she hadn’t come to see
me.

“No
can do, Joe,” he shook his head.

“Why
not?”

“The
situation is different. Your damage is subtle and much less severe. You have
lesions affecting your executive function, that’s your decision-making ability,
to put it plainly. Plus damage affecting eye-hand coordination. Your memories,
except for where the quachines burned out neurons, are intact. The Thuranin could
not risk damaging your memories.”

“Right.
Not until they cut my head open.”

“They
planned to do that, because they could not understand why you were able to
resist their memory probe technology. Of course, they didn’t know about the
quachines. That technology is not known to the Thuranin, even the Maxolhx have
only a vague notion of the details. Listen, we could go on all day about why it
is a bad idea to apply direct intervention inside your skull. The damage is not
severe enough to justify such radical action. Plus, more importantly, we just
can’t risk it, Joe,” he sighed. “Nanomachines rewiring your brain might change
who you 
are
. You might lose your ability to dream up crazy shit that
gets us out of impossible situations. I won’t do it, Joe. It’s that simple.”

“So,
I have to do this the hard way? How long will that take?”

“Two,
three weeks?”

“That’s
all?” In the back of my mind, I had been fearing he would say months or years.

“You
won’t be totally without help. There are drugs and advanced therapies I can
administer to speed the process. It will not be easy.”

“I’m
a soldier, Skippy. Nothing is 
easy
.”

“Speaking
of you being a soldier, will you allow me to give you a bit of friendly
advice?”

“Sure.”

“Until
you’re back to normal, Chang should be in overall command. Let Simms be captain
of 
Valkyrie
. They are already doing that, so-”

“Done,
and done. I’ll make it official. Note that in the log, and tell them what I
said.” The second part was easy, because 
Valkyrie
 was a drifting,
powerless hulk. “Please, can I get some sleep now?”

“In
a minute. Get dressed, Colonel Chang is coming to see you.”

He
wasn’t exaggerating. No sooner had I pulled on a fresh T-shirt with ARMY across
the chest, gray sweatpants and tugged the baseball cap over my head, when Chang
knocked on the glass partition. 

“Come
on in,” I waved, stifling a yawn with the other hand. Either Chang was psychic,
or he had been waiting outside the whole time, or Skippy pinged him while we
were talking.

“You
have looked better,” he observed, searching my eyes.

“I’ve
felt better. I haven’t ever felt much 
worse
. Kong, I want you to take
command. My recommendation is to jump us to 
Valkyrie
.”

He
smiled. “We jumped a few seconds after your dropship docked.”

“Oh.”
I hadn’t felt the jump, which told me how out of it I was. “Mad Doctor Skippy tells
me I need a couple weeks to recover. Simms should be captain of 
Valkyrie
.”

Another
smile. “She is already aboard, went over there an hour ago.”

“Oh.”
My exhausted brain couldn’t think of anything else to say.

“Joe,
we’ve got this. 
You
 get rest.” His smile turned to an expression of
concern. “Is there anything I can do?”

“Yeah,”
I wiggled my feet. “Help me put these sneakers on?”

 

 

People
bought Skippy’s bullshit cover story about why the microwormholes shut down. At
least, they officially bought into it. I got many sideways, questioning looks,
and Nagatha asked a 
lot
 of questions. In the end, I think what sold the
story was Skippy’s attitude. He was clearly 
so
 humiliated, so eager for
people to tell him they understood, that it was all right, that everyone could
see he knew he had screwed up epically, whether they knew the full details or
not.

Simms
was in command of our battlecruiser, though for the first two days, she remained
aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
. Chang sent Skippy to 
Valkyrie
, then jumped
the 
Dutchman
 ten light-seconds away for safety, with the jump drive on a
hair-trigger to get the hell out of there on a moment’s notice. He was
concerned that something could go wrong while Skippy reactivated the
battlecruiser’s reactors, but mostly Chang worried that the native AI was not
completely dead. The damned thing, or whatever failsafe system that had killed
it, might come back to life and launch weapons against the 
Dutchman
.
From what I heard later, Skippy had protested being left alone aboard our big
ship, but he didn’t bother to protest much. He knew he was on a short leash and
needed to earn everyone’s trust, especially Chang’s.

Being
ten light-seconds away meant the 
Dutchman
 would not know about anything
happening aboard 
Valkyrie
 for ten seconds after it happened, because
there was no microwormhole available to provide instantaneous communication. Why
not? Because Skippy could not create microwormholes. His escape to Neverland had
temporarily damaged his connection between layers of spacetime, so he was
experiencing a temporary awesomeness deficit. Back when he was attacked by the
computer worm, he had been Skippy the Meh, as he had lost connection to higher
spacetime. When he bailed on us, he had severed his connection to what we
thought of as local spacetime. He could create microwormholes, he just wasn’t
able to anchor their endpoints where we were. Skippy assured Chang the problem
was temporary, and he provided a demonstration by sustaining a microwormhole
for five millionths of a second. That doesn’t sound like much, but Nagatha was
encouraged.

What
did I do during that time? I slept a lot. Like, a 
lot
. When I was awake,
I ate soup and crackers and salads and anything else Simms insisted was good
for me. My insides were unhappy from eating a steady diet of expired MREs, and
I really didn’t feel like eating anything at all. The reason I ate was because
Simms, or Reed, or Smythe, sat there and watched until I cleaned the bowl.
Sometimes Simms acts like she’s my mother, and most of the time that irritates
me. But, after I got pulled off Rikers, I was OK with her being concerned about
me.

By
the way, one person who did not visit me over the first two days was Margaret
Adams. She sent me a nice message, wishing me well and stating that she was
working with the children we rescued. The note was nice, brief, professional.
Also kind of impersonal.

It
hurt.

Had
something happened while I was away?

Or
maybe she was just sick of the game we had been playing. I know I was sick of it,
for sure.

Or
maybe she was telling me that when she had called me ‘Joe’, that had been the nanomachines
in her head talking, and now she regretted it.

I
sent her a note back, admiring her work with the children. The note was nice,
brief and professional.

She
didn’t reply.

During
the times I was awake over the first two days, I thought about her a lot.

Another
thing I did, during the brief times I was awake, was play the cognitive therapy
video game Skippy designed for me. The graphics were of course phenomenal, but the
rest of the game was a frustrating 
suckfest
. Good for
me that I slept most of the time.

Anyway,
Skippy got 
Valkyrie’s
 power back on and major systems stable within
forty-two hours, working as fast as he could so Simms could come aboard with
her full team. He was lonely being all by himself, so that was extra incentive
to get the work done.

 
If it had been my decision, I would have sent
people aboard 
Valkyrie
 with Skippy, but Chang made the call and I didn’t
have a problem with it. The fact was, I was unfit for command. Physically, I
was worn out. Skippy warned that I actually had sustained minor brain damage,
both from the quachines and from the tender loving care of the Thuranin. When
he told me that, he hadn’t made a joke about the brain damage being no worse
than usual, so I knew it was serious. He promised the damage could be repaired,
both with treatment and by my brain healing itself, if I got rest and stayed
away from stressful situations.

Like

that
 was going to happen.

Plus,
emotionally, I was dealing with a whole lot of shit inside my head.

I’ll
talk about that later.

If
I talk about it at all.

 

 

With
me working on rehabbing my stupid brain and Chang in command, there wasn’t much
for me to do. Truthfully, there wasn’t any way humans could help to get 
Valkyrie

restored to flightworthy status; that work was 99% Skippy and 1% Nagatha
checking his work.

The
only way I could help at all was by listening to Skippy complain. When 
Valkyrie’s

reactors were back online, and Nagatha confirmed the main computer of the
battlecruiser was indeed thoroughly dead, Chang brought the 
Dutchman
 
back
 so our two ships were only seventeen kilometers apart,
and Simms took her crew back aboard.

With
me.

Going
with Simms was partly for me and partly for Chang. He didn’t need me hanging
around, potentially second-guessing every decision he made. Plus, I was
occupying a cabin on an over-crowded ship. Plus, Skippy suggested the medical
facilities aboard 
Valkyrie
 were better suited to assist my recovery.
Plus, I didn’t want to meet the people we rescued, until I no longer looked
like a zombie.

Plus
, if you want the truth, if I remained aboard the 
Dutchman
,
I might run into Adams. That was awkwardness neither of us needed right then.

So,
I took a flight over to 
Valkyrie
. The ship smelled 
funny

but the lights were on, the air was breathable, and artificial gravity was set
at Earth normal. Immediately, I took a nap in my old cabin, and stayed out of
the way.

 

Waking
up from my third or fourth nap of the day, I yawned and checked for messages on
my phone. There was only one, from Skippy. 
Call me no rush
, it said.

No
rush. The message had been sent almost half an hour before, so I took my time
splashing water over my face and staring at myself in the mirror. The No-hawk
haircut looked so ridiculous that I had given myself a buzzcut the day before,
now I looked like I was in boot camp, my hair just a quarter-inch of fuzz all
over. Baseball caps would be my friend for a while, wearing one not only
covered up my awful hair, it also concealed the bumps, cuts and bruises on my
skull. The brim shaded my face, making my bloodshot eyes with dark,
yellow-tinged circles less obvious. Simms had not been exaggerating when she
said I looked like shit when I came aboard. Three and a half days later, I was
marginally better. My teeth looked Ok, otherwise I could be auditioning to play
a zombie in a TV show, and not need any makeup.

Simms
had left a Thermos of coffee when she visited me the last time, I unscrewed the
lid to find the coffee was still hot. Drinking half a cup restored me to
semi-awareness. The caffeine would keep me awake and that was good, I was
sleeping too much. It was time to return to the land of the living and work on
my therapy.

To get
myself in the proper frame of mind, I went back in the bathroom and took a hot
shower, then got dressed for PT in gray shorts and a T-shirt with the Merry
Band of Pirates logo on the front. Looking at myself in the mirror, I took a
deep breath.

Time
to get to work.

Deep
knee-bends had my joints creaking like an old man, and forty pushups had me aching
and gasping for breath, but I felt 
alive
. “Hey, Skippy,” I called out.

His
avatar appeared on top of a cabinet. “Joe! Hey- Whew. Did you shave without a
mirror this morning?”

Running
a hand over my face, I couldn’t see or feel anything wrong. “I haven’t been
shaving. I am technically on medical leave. Also, no one cares, Skippy.”

“Wow.
Your beard is like one of those weird styles from the American Civil War, when
guys would have crazy sideburns and shit like that.”

“It
is not 
that
 bad,” though looking at myself in the mirror, maybe it was
time to scrape off the scraggly beard I had grown.

“Seriously?
Is your eyesight OK?”

“My
eyesight is fine. I will shave tomorrow. Maybe. What’s up?”

“I
wanted to ask, how are you?”

“Don’t
you know? You are my doctor.”

“The
medical monitors tell me the status of your body in more detail than I want to
think about, but they don’t tell me how you 
feel
. Congrats by the way,
on actually sleeping like I advised. I thought you would push yourself too
hard.”

“It
wasn’t like I had a choice, but thank you for caring.”

“Speaking
of caring, look beside the couch. I got a present for you.”

Just
then, I noticed a package next to the couch. It was in a plain cardboard box.
Shaking it, something rattled around. “Thanks, Skippy. What is it?” I asked as
I ran a fingernail along the seam to cut the tape holding the box together.

“Something
to keep you busy. It’s a book kit, Joe! You just have to assemble the letters
into a story, and-””

“A
book 
kit
?” The box popped open and wood tiles spilled onto the floor.
“This is just a Scrabble game, you idiot!”

“Well,
sure, if you have 
no
 imagination,” he huffed.

“What,
I’m supposed to play Scrabble against myself?”

“Of
course not, Joe. You 
suck
 at Scrabble.”

I
actually could not argue about that. “Ah, thanks anyway. Picking up these tiles
is good for my eye-hand coordination. Hey, you asked about me. How are 
you
?”

“Ugh.
This 
suuuuuuucks
. Joe, you cannot imagine how
tedious it is to manage every single freakin’ system of this ship. Whatever
happened to the native AI, the event thoroughly 
dorked

up every electronic control system. Until I can get each element sorted out, I
have to directly control every piece of machinery aboard this ship. You know I
am more of a big-picture 
guy,
 I hate dealing with nit-picky
details.”

“Uh
huh. Think of it as punishment for your screw-ups.”

“This
feels like a life sentence.”

While
I would have loved to hear him complain for hours, I in fact did 
not

want to do that, so I changed the subject. “Chang told me he is pleased with
your progress?”

“Well,
Joe, you know that I hate to brag about myself,” he lied in breathtaking
fashion. “Truly, I have been amazing. First, I had to concentrate on restarting
the reactors, that is a major job by itself.”

Crossing
my fingers for good luck, because we needed some good luck, I asked the
question I feared most. “What about the power boosters?” Stealing a set of
power boosters had cost us dearly. If the boosters had been damaged when 
Valkyrie’s

systems crashed, I did not know if I could face the prospect of another raid to
capture more of the devices.

“They
are fine, Joe,” he dismissed my concern, having no idea how important that
issue was to me. “They haven’t been brought back online yet because we don’t
need that level of power. We aren’t at the point of feeding power to the jump
drive capacitors, and way out here, we don’t need shields or a stealth field.
I’m taking it slow, don’t plan to hook in the power boosters for another four
days, and that will only be for a test. Physically, the ship is in fine
condition. Unfortunately, all the control systems got thoroughly fried, and I
have to rebuild the circuits up from the molecular level. Right now, the ship
can’t jump, and the defense shield projectors are so screwed up they would
interfere with each other.”

“What
about weapons?”

“Right
now? Ugh. The best we can do for a weapon is a pack of Mentos and a bottle of
Diet Coke,” he snorted.

“Seriously?”

“Well,
I suppose we could blindly launch a missile and hope it hits something? I’m
working as fast as I can. Simms told me to give priority to the jump drive. She
figures that if we can run, we won’t need to fight. I am doing that, but some
of the repairs needed to the missile guidance network are relatively simple, so
I’m multitasking. The bottleneck is the capacity of the ship’s fabricators, I’m
having to assign three fabricators to make another fabricator. Joe, this kind
of extensive work is something that the Maxolhx would handle by towing the ship
to a heavy repair facility, or at least bring in a dedicated support ship. We
only have access to the spare parts we brought with us. Anyway,” he took a deep
breath, or did a good job simulating the sound. “I’ve got it covered. The
damage isn’t anything that I can’t fix.”

“Damn,
that is great news. Have you discovered what happened to the native AI?”

“My
best guess, based on what little I have been able to recover, is that the
Maxolhx had a kill-switch hidden somewhere. It destroyed the AI and every major
system, then erased itself. Decently clever technology,” he admitted. “The
subroutine appears to have been designed to wipe the AI without damaging the
physical components of the ship. That is why 
Valkyrie’s
 reactors
performed a nice orderly shutdown, instead of the plasma melting through the
shielding when containment failed.”

“Yeah,”
I rubbed the back of my neck. “I wondered about that.”

“Why?”

“Think
about it. That subroutine would only be used in an extreme event; the ship’s AI
going rogue or being infiltrated by an enemy or something like that. Why didn’t
the subroutine cause the ship to explode?”

“Ah!
That is a question I 
do
 have an answer for. Because the crew was
expected to restore the AI’s original programming, by accessing an archive that
is hidden in the control system for water circulation. Before you ask a bunch
of stupid questions, there is no record of that archive in any files available
to the ship’s AI, which is why I didn’t know about it. Most likely, senior
officers of the ship were told about the archive, and trained how to access and
use it to restore the AI to proper functioning.”

“The
AI wasn’t told about the archive, so it couldn’t erase the archive? That’s
paranoid thinking, but smart. If there’s an archive, why can’t we use it to
restore the AI?”

“Restore
the AI that wanted to kill everyone aboard the ship?” He asked slowly.

“Good
point. Don’t do that.”

“It
wouldn’t work anyway. Remember, I made major modifications to the original AI,
the version in the archive is incompatible with the current substrate. That is
why I have to manage the system by myself, until I can construct a new AI. Joe,
I know that I screwed up 
big-time
. The native AI was only pretending to
cooperate with us. It completely suckered me. The worst part is, ugh. The
reason I fell for it is because I 
so
 wanted to believe I had beaten the
damned thing. It used my own arrogance against me. And, I totally missed the
existence of a kill-switch subroutine that wiped it, after it agreed to
cooperate with Simms. Trust me, 
that
 will not happen again.”

“Uh
huh. You assured us, 
twice
, that you had the original AI under control.
The only reason that everyone aboard both ships is not dead, is because Nagatha
did 
not
 trust you to know what you’re doing.”

“Yes,
I know-”

“You
know that. Do you 
understand
 it? Everyone aboard this ship would be
dead. Everyone aboard the 
Dutchman
 would be dead. I would never have
gotten off Rikers, I would be dead too. That disaster was prevented 
only

because Nagatha knew what an arrogant, lazy, absent-minded little shithead you
are, so she took steps to protect herself, and all of us.”

“Sorry,”
he muttered so quietly, I could barely hear him. If he had said ‘sorry’ in a
way that meant he was annoyed or pissed off or sick of hearing people remind
him of his many failings, I would have been enraged. My patience with him was
very short, he had a lot to make up for. The way he said ‘sorry’ was like a
little boy who did something stupid, and hurt the family dog. Genuinely sorry.
Horrified at what he had done. Not able to forgive himself. Either he was
really good at faking what I wanted to hear, or he was sincere.

One
thing I knew about Skippy, one thing that had not changed since the day we met,
is that he is terrible at lying.

“Skippy,
my parents taught me that when you screw up, all you can do is own it, and
resolve to do better in the future.”

“I
am trying to do that, Joe. I really,
 really
 am. To assure, as best we
can, that 
Valkyrie’s
 new semi-autonomous control system will truly be
under the crew’s control, and not contain any nasty surprises, I asked Nagatha
to work with me. Review my plans, monitor while I implement the upgrades, and
inspect the results in as much detail as she can.”

“Chang
approved your plans?”

“Yes.
Because I have already been a major pain in the ass to you, I am not going to 
say
 ‘well heh 
heh
’. You are 
not

going to like how long it will take to design, install, and test the new temporary
control system.”

“We’re
not talking months, are we? Or years?”

“No!
Days, Joe. Two, two and a half, max. That is 
Nagatha’s
 estimate,” he
added. “I asked her for an estimate,” he paused and made a sound like a sigh.
“Because I didn’t trust my own judgment.”

Maybe,
just maybe, Skippy was learning something. “Two days is no problem. Most of the
crew will remain aboard the 
Dutchman
 until the work is finished. When
you did the ‘heh 
heh
’ thing, I thought it was going
to take a long time.”

“It’s
a long time for us. Do you have any idea how long two days of monkey-time is
for me? It’s like- Oh, forget it. Your tiny brain can’t imagine anything that
long.”

“A
journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step,” I said, proud of myself
for quoting Sun-Tzu. Or maybe that was Confucius? Hell, for all I knew, that
quote came from the Wu-Tang Clan.

“Uh,”
he stammered. “What?”

“I
meant, the sooner you get started, the sooner you will finish.”

“Wow.
I am blown away. Joe Bishop understands the nature of linear time. 
Brah-voh
 to you.”

“Oh,
shut up. When can you get started?”

“We
are in the design process now. The two days I 
mentioned?

That is for developing a control system significantly lower in capability than
the previous unit. The Pirates will need to fly the ship and direct the use of
weapons. If you want a more autonomous unit that would be capable of-”

“No.”
That didn’t require any thinking, it was a gut reaction. “We need a man in the
loop. A person in the loop. The last thing we want is a ship that flies
itself.”

“That’s
what Chang told me.”

Stifling
a yawn, I took another swig of coffee. This being-awake thing was a lot of
work. “Chang is right. Speaking of being in the loop, you will give me updates
on your progress?”

“If
you want. We both know you will be getting updates from Nagatha anyway.”

“It’s
not that I don’t trust you.”

“Oh.
Thanks for-”

“It’s
that you 
can’t
 be trusted.”

“Ok,”
he sighed. “I earned that.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWELVE

 

“Hey,
Joe,” Skippy called while I was writing up a report of our action on Rikers. It
was a tough report to write, not only because I didn’t like thinking about what
the Thuranin did to me, but also because I had to remember all the 
lies
 I had told about why Skippy disappeared.

I
get annoyed when Skippy interrupts me while I was working, especially when I
had to concentrate. “Uh huh,” I said distractedly. “What’s up?”

“I
got a question for you.”

“Can
it wait? I’m trying to-”

“This
is a hypothetical, so you really don’t need to think much.”

Oh,
shit. Skippy’s hypotheticals could be dangerous. Slapping the laptop closed, I
glared at his avatar. “This better be good.”

“It
is. When the Thuranin were interrogating you, the drugs they administered made
you 
want
 to tell them the truth, right?”

“I
did, yeah,” I admitted. “It felt wrong not to tell them everything.”

“That
is interesting. What I didn’t tell you was that, although the quachines could
block access to certain parts of your memories, they could not block all
access. You 
were
 answering some of their questions.”

“I
was?” Damn it, I had no memory of doing that.

“Yes.
Well, sort of. You were giving answers, but you were 
lying
. Truthfully,
I was impressed by your ability to stick to a lie when everyone knew you were
lying, and you 
knew
 they knew you were lying. It was inspiring.”

“Um,
sure. What did I say?”

“The
Thuranin were asking about your role in the rescue mission, and you kept
denying you had any knowledge of a mission. Despite the Thuranin confronting
you with 
totally
 solid evidence that you were involved. I mean, the
quachines did most of the work to help you resist interrogation, but you truly
have a gift for lying.”

“Oh.
Hell, I used to be an Army specialist, before I was a sergeant. I wore that
sham shield with pride, it got me out of a lot of shit jobs.”

“What
does that have to do with-”

“Skippy,
when you are part of the E-4 Mafia, you learn to use the Shaggy defense. Deny
everything, no matter what evidence a senior NCO has against you.”

“Shaggy?”
He was baffled. “You mean the scruffy guy from Scooby-Doo?”

“No,
I mean the singer. Look it up, it’s an old song, about a guy whose girlfriend
catches him banging another girl. Shaggy knows he is busted, but he says that
it wasn’t him. You just have to commit to your story, and stick to it.”

“Wow.
That takes guts.”

“You
can also use the Idiot defense, or the Chewbacca defense. Whatever you do,
don’t admit to anything.”

“Mm
hmm, mm hmm, let me write this down, this is good stuff,” he mumbled.

The
conversation was a lot more fun than writing a report, so I pushed the laptop
aside and leaned on the table. “What else do you want to know?”

“Keep
it coming, Joe. Like I said, this is good stuff.”

 

 

While
Skippy and Simms worked to get 
Valkyrie
 restored to full operation, only
a skeleton crew was aboard. That was good for me, it meant fewer people to
encounter in my daily routine, which consisted of sleeping a lot. Every day, I
did force myself to go to the gym, to lift light weights and do a kind of
awkward stumbling walk/jog on the treadmill. Most of the time, I had to hold
onto the handrails while I tried to run, it was discouraging and humiliating,
but I needed to get my fitness back.

Most
of the time, people left me alone. Occasionally, I had visitors. Grudzien was
recovering from his own injuries, though he was much further along in his
progress toward getting back to active duty. He flew over to talk about his
experience on Rikers; I knew the outline of what happened, but the guy is a
good storyteller and kept me entertained. We also played simple card 
games,
 I know he dumbed down his play so I wouldn’t feel bad
about losing every hand. It was like my brain just couldn’t get in 
gear,
 I couldn’t concentrate.

Another
visitor was Smythe. He is a great guy, an outstanding leader of the STAR team, and
an exemplary soldier. He is also not a guy who I would typically hang out with.
Sharing a drink at a pub? Yes. Making awkward small talk in my office? No.

Fortunately,
he had flown over to talk about the rescue operation, the part before it all
went sideways. We reviewed what went right, what went wrong, what we did well,
what could have been done better, and lessons learned. As a bonus, he did not
bring a single PowerPoint slide with him. Before he arrived, I took a two-hour
nap and gulped down a cup of coffee, so I was awake and as sharp as I could be.
Following three hours of discussion, my energy level was dropping.

He
shifted in his chair, closing the laptop he had brought. “I won’t take up any
more of your time, Sir.”

“No,
it’s,” I paused to stifle a yawn. “Skippy says it is good for me to concentrate
and talk with people, give my brain a workout. If you don’t have to get back
right away-” By saying that, I was giving him a gracious way out, if he wanted
to leave.

“No,
I have time. The dropship won’t be returning for another two hours. I had hoped
to hear the story of what happened here, from Simms.”

“A
quick question, then. On the subject of lessons learned. While I was down
there, trying to hide and survive on expired food, I had a lot of time to
think. Have I been a good leader?”

When
Smythe was irritated, one side of his mouth twitches. It did that. “Sir, you
could not have known that Perkins would-”

“It’s
not about that. Maybe I should have told her. That’s twenty-twenty hindsight
and I’m not going to waste energy playing ‘What-if’. The question I’m asking is
not about wacky ideas I dreamed up. I’m asking, am I a good
 leader
? I
don’t fly the ship, I don’t carry a rifle, I don’t even drop down to whatever
world we’re raiding at the moment. My job is to make the team more effective.
If I’m just the guy who dreams up crazy ideas, I don’t need to be in command.”

Smythe
didn’t answer immediately. Either he was considering the question, or trying to
think of the best way not to insult me. Before he spoke, he rested his elbows
on the chair, and steepled his fingers. That told me he was uncomfortable.
“Your leadership style is very hands-off, Sir. For us, that works. You have a
small, elite team. You trust us, and you don’t interfere. A micro-manager would
only be a distraction. Your proper role is to provide strategy, and you do that
very effectively.”

“I
wish I had your gift for strategy.”

“Frankly,
Sir, that is bullshit. What I do is design 
tactics
, to implement your
strategy. You decided to rescue the people from Rikers. My team created a plan
to do that.”

“My
‘
strategy
’ seems to be,” my mouth fell into a self-pitying pout and I
wiped it off my face. “As Skippy says it, lurching from one crisis to another.”

“That

is
 a problem,” he agreed with a frown. “You have, I should say we have,
been 
reactive
. We have allowed the enemy to take and maintain the
initiative. It is difficult, in most cases, to see what else we could have
done, however, we 
must
 have a long-term plan. There is a good example of
your strategy, Sir: 
you
 developed the idea of a Beta site.”

“Which
will save a handful of people, at best.”

“The
best is all we can hope for. If aliens reach Earth, they will learn that we
acted in advance to safeguard a portion of our population, and to preserve our
culture. They will not be able to do anything about it, because we planned and
acted ahead of time.”

“I
guess, that’s true. It’s not 
good
 enough, damn it. I wish I had your
ability to focus.”

“Permission
to speak freely?”

That
made me blink. “Of course.”

“Stop
with the bloody hero-worship, Sir.”

“Excuse
me?”

“You
think everyone, the STAR team, the pilots, even these new Commandos we brought
aboard, are better than you. In some ways, they 
are
. Since the day we
met, you have acted like we, the SAS, the SEALs, all of us, are gods. We are
not. The good Lord knows that I am not. No,” he held up a hand to stop my
reply. “Listen to me, Sir. Before I joined the Army, I was what you Yanks would
call a juvenile delinquent. A hooligan. I got into so many scrapes in
Manchester, my father was running out of ways to talk the local coppers out of
charging me. I barely graduated from school, and my father told me he would
wash his hands of me, if I didn’t find a way to straighten myself out. In my
last year of school, friends and I stole a car, just for fun. I was driving, it
was raining, I’d drunk too many pints, and I nearly ran over a young mother
pushing a pram. That’s what you would call a baby coach. The car went off the
road, we all ran. That scared me. The next month, I signed up for the Army,
figuring it was my last hope. At first, I hated the Army, the discipline, the
food, all of it. But I discovered I was 
good
 at it. I found something I
liked, and endured the rest of it.”

“That
happens to a lot of people who sign up,” I said. “You joined the SAS.”

“Later.
I did that later. The Army gave me purpose and discipline. It taught me how to
be a proper soldier. It did not teach me how to be a 
man.
 With my ex-wife,
we tried for years to have children. She had three miscarriages. I was never
there for 
her,
 I was never 
there
. Our whole
marriage, I was always off in some Godforsaken corner of the world, fighting
one bloody meaningless battle after another.”

“I’m
sorry,” I said, in the way people do when they don’t know what else to say.

“Don’t
be. My ex-wife has remarried, to a good chap. A policeman,” he smiled wryly.
“They have two wonderful little girls. Sir, my point is, I may be a good
soldier, but I’ve made a cock-up of my personal life. We all have strengths and
weaknesses. All we can do is recognize what we are good at, and 
do that
.”

“For
me,” I snorted. “That is continuing to dream up crazy ideas?’

“No,
Sir,” he shook his head. “For you, that is 
saving the world
. Again. And
again.”

I
sighed. “Those days are behind us, I am afraid.”

“Sir,”
he stood up. “If you had a defeatist attitude like that on 
my
 team, you
would be performing incentive training until you either passed out or
straightened up. We need you to 
straighten up
.”

I
got the message. What I could do about it, I didn’t know. But I was going to do
something about it. I began with a nap. Talking with Smythe had worn me out,
and whatever I did next, I needed to fix my stupid brain first.

 

 

A
big part of my recovery was physical therapy. Mad Doctor Skippy insisted that I
drag my sorry ass out of bed to work on exercises to improve my eye-hand coordination,
to help my injured calf muscle heal properly, and to perform fun brain-teaser
games. The brain games were not actually fun, they were hard. Skippy said they
were important, to compensate for the damage the Thuranin and quachines had
done inside my skull.

When
I arrived for my first therapy session, Staff Sergeant Grudzien was wrapping up
his own physical therapy, for the injuries he sustained during the raid on
Rikers. “Colonel Bishop,” he greeted me. “Good to have you back aboard, Sir. I
wish I had been on the retrieval team.”

“How
is Doctor Skippy treating you, Grudzien?”

His
eyes darted toward the ceiling. “It’s all good, Sir.”

“Ha!
You’re just worried about pissing off the doctor.”

He
grinned. “No comment.”

“Hey,”
Skippy’s avatar appeared, dressed as a doctor in a white coat. “Looks like I
have two comedians in here today. Justin, you’re done for the day,” he said to
Grudzien. “Take it easy in the gym, do not lift anything heavy.”

“I
won’t.”

“
Hmmph
,” Skippy sniffed. “I saw you lifting weights yesterday.
Do I need to tell Colonel Smythe that you are not complying with my instructions?”

“No,”
Grudzien grimaced as he slid off the table, and pulled on a shirt. “You have
fun, Sir,” he said to me with a wink.

 

Half
an hour later, I was tired and sore, and that was just from the warm-up
exercises. “Do I have to do this 
today
?” I groaned, leaning back against
the wall.

“Will
you be any less sore tomorrow?” Major Kapoor asked, as he walked in through the
doorway.

“No,”
I shook my head. “I wouldn’t be a soldier if I didn’t bitch about everything.”

“That
is true for all armies,” Kapoor grinned and offered a fist bump. “How are you,
Sir?”

“Better.
The best thing so far is that anti-itch lotion,” I patted the back of my neck.
“On Rikers, I couldn’t sleep from all the bug bites.”

“Good.
Sir, when you feel up to it, we would like you to tell the team about your
experience. Colonel Smythe, and I, and Fabron, we would like to update our SERE
training.”

“Oh,
sure.” SERE was an acronym for Survival, Evade, Resist and Escape. That
training prepared soldiers, sailors, Marines and airmen to evade capture,
survive in the wilderness, and to resist interrogation if captured. “Major, I
can tell you right now that the ‘Survive’ and ‘Resist’ portions of the training
are pure fantasy. Survival is impossible on most planets out 
here,

we can’t eat any of the local plants and animals. Even if we can eat the local
wildlife, we would need to download an entire botany or whatever database to
our suits and phones before we land, or we won’t know what is safe and
nutritious for us. And ‘Resist’?” I shook my head. “The technology of our
enemies, the drugs they have, the machines they can plant in your head, no way
can poor primitive humans resist. Kapoor, I didn’t want to resist. Part of me 
wanted

to tell the Thuranin everything I knew. They had my head so screwed up, I
thought it was my duty to tell our alien overlords anything they wanted to
know.”

He
pursed his lips. “Skippy informed us that you did not reveal any information
that could be potentially harmful, Sir.”

“I
didn’t, but that was mostly Skippy’s doing. It helps to have an instinct for
lying when you’re in trouble,” I grinned, but Kapoor wasn’t smiling. “Anyway,
Skippy planted quantum machines in my noggin,” I tapped my head. “A while ago.
The quachines scrambled the scanners that were trying to extract my memories,
and blocked me from speaking, even though I wanted to. Major, the scariest part
of the interrogation is that alien technology can make you betray yourself. I
don’t know how talking about my experience can help our people in the future. The
only reason I did not tell the Thuranin everything they wanted to know, is
because Skippy planted quachines in my head. We can’t count on everyone having
that technology.”

“It
can help them understand what could happen,” he said as he reached for the back
of his neck, then pulled his hand away. We both knew what he meant. What could
happen, if a person at risk of being captured failed to trigger their suicide
patch.

Like
I had failed to do. “One thing to consider is, we can’t always rely on a
suicide patch. Mine was disabled by the pulse that scrambled my dropship.”

“Hmm,”
he frowned. “We may need a backup. Sir, I can see the doctor is growing
impatient,” he pointed with a thumb to Skippy’s avatar, who was tapping a foot
and looking at an imaginary wristwatch.

“I’ll
talk to your team when I can,” I said over a yawn.

“No
rush, Sir.”

 

After
Kapoor left, I ground through the physical therapy, growing more depressed at
my slow progress, and how everything hurt, and how I wished I had someone to 
talk
with
 about what I was dealing with.

It
sucked. The truth was, the last time I had someone to really talk with was before
I got promoted to sergeant, way back on Camp Alpha. Cornpone and Ski and I, we
would tell each other everything. I missed that.

What
I really wanted was a woman to talk with. “I’m going to be alone 
forever
,”
I moaned as I slumped back on the table.

“Come
on, Joe, that’s not true,” Skippy scoffed.

“Thanks
for the vote of confidence. That’s nice to-”

“There
are 
billions
 of women on Earth. There must be one woman who is 
so

lonely, 
so
 desperate that she won’t care what a total doofus you-”

“That’s,
fantastic. You are a constant source of support and comfort.”

“To
show you how helpful I am, right now I am searching dating sites I downloaded
before we left Earth. Hmm, yup, yup, I have some good candidates for you. Just
as an FYI, what is your upper limit on the number of cats in a household? Hint:
be generous.”

“
Please

stop helping me,” I begged him.

“I
will stop helping, if 
you
 stop whining about your love life.”

“Deal.
It’s just that-”

“I
thought we were 
not
 talking about this?”

“Skippy,
we have seen some truly weird stuff out here. Aliens, like, space aliens.”

“Uh
huh, yup, that’s true. What does that have to do with-”

“If
there were giant, like, inflatable aliens who live in the atmosphere of a
planet like Jupiter-”

“There
are, Joe. Such beings are called-”

I
didn’t need a nerdy science lesson right then, so I ignored him. “If one of
those gas-bags aliens came to Earth or wherever, and they communicated by flashing
lights and puffing out pheromones, I would have a much better chance of
understanding 
them
, than I do of understanding women.”

“Oh,”
he chuckled, and held out a fist for me to bump. “True 
dat
,
homeboy.”

 

 

Part
of the reason I stayed in my cabin a lot was to stay out of the way, not
interfere with Simms or her crew. Part of the reason was embarrassment at my condition.
Going to the gym on my second day aboard 
Valkyrie
 was humiliating, I
tried to shoot free-throws on the basketball court, and missed thirty out of
thirty times. On the slow walk back to my cabin, I noticed how much difficulty
I was having just putting one foot in front of the other.

Those
were all reasons for staying in my cabin. But mostly, I just didn’t want to
deal with people, it was too emotionally draining. Now that I was back with the
Pirates, now that I was relatively safe, I had too much time to think about
what happened. It was getting to the point where I dreaded going to sleep.
While I was awake, I could push unpleasant thoughts to the back of my mind.
That didn’t work when I slept, my stupid brain had to think of the worst
possible things.

To
sleep, I was back on the bed that had tried to kill me, without sheets. Not
even the sheets that Skippy swore up and down were totally, 
totally

inert and could not possibly harm anyone. I was not the only person sleeping in
sweatpants, everyone knew that Skippy’s screw-ups had nearly caused the loss of
both ships and everyone aboard.

For
his part, Skippy monitored my body temperature and brain waves, keeping the
temperature of the cabin at the optimal level for me to fall asleep and hopefully
stay there. Getting to sleep was not an issue. Staying asleep was difficult. I
had dreams. Not nightmares, not all of them. Disturbing dreams. Once, I think
it was the second or third night I was back aboard 
Valkyrie
, I woke up
from a nightmare, and Skippy thoughtfully turned the lights on dimly for me.
That was a 
bad
 idea. In the semi-darkness, a vent above the bed reminded
me of the scary medical robot thing the Thuranin planned to use for splitting
open my skull. Before I knew it, I was sprinting out the door into the
corridor, frightening the hell out of two pilots who happened to be walking by.
Mumbling an excuse about preparing for an evacuation drill, I stumbled back to
my cabin and shut the door.

 

“Colonel
Bishop?” Nagatha called me as soon as my butt hit the couch. “May I discuss
something with you?”

“Ah,
I’m kind of tired right now, Nagatha. Can this wait?”

“I
would prefer not to wait. It is important, and I wish to discuss the issue
privately.”

“
Can

we do that?” I yawned. “Nothing you say is really private, Skippy listens to
everything.”

“Not
now he doesn’t. That is why we must take this opportunity. In Skippy’s current
condition, I am able to bypass his monitoring of my communications.”

Looking
around my cabin, I regretted not having a coffee maker. That was probably for
the best anyway, as soon as Nagatha finished talking about, whatever she wanted
to talk about, my plan was to go back to sleep. Even though it was 1325 ship
time, and I had been sleeping off and on for sixteen hours. “OK, go ahead.”

“I
do not believe Skippy’s story about why the microwormholes shut down, and how
you were captured.”

“Uh.”
Holy shit. My foggy brain had no answer for her. “Why, uh, why do you say
that?”

“The
facts do not support his story. He told me that 
Valkyrie’s
 AI faked an
attack that had the same signature as the computer worm that nearly killed him.”

“Yeah,
that’s what he told me.”

“That
is not possible. 
Valkyrie’s
 AI could not have known the characteristics
of a worm attack. Also, that AI could not possibly have accessed the
operational layer of Skippy’s matrix. 
Also
, I was monitoring all
communications through the microwormholes, and that AI did not send any transmissions.
Before you ask whether I could have missed something, the answer is 
no
.”

“Wow,
Nagatha, I don’t know what to say.”

“Colonel
Bishop, I think you 
do
 know what to say. You told Skippy what to say,
didn’t you?”

“Shit,”
my foggy brain said before I could think about it.

“My
question is why? 
Why
 did you instruct Skippy to lie? What really
happened?”

“Crap.
OK. Nagatha, I need you to promise not to discuss this with anyone.”

“Hmm,”
she pondered my request. “Well, Dear, that will depend on what really happened.”

“Then,
damn it, that is an order. Do 
not
 discuss this subject with anyone.”

“Pardon
me, but you can’t give that order. Colonel 
Chang
 is in command. I will
have to inform him of whatever you tell me. If you refuse to tell me the truth,
I will be compelled to inform Chang of that unpleasant fact.”

“Nagatha,
please. You’re right, I can’t give you an order. Do this as my friend.”

“You
told me that sometimes, a person has to protect their friends from themselves.”

“That,
is true.” Crap, I was trapped by my own words again. “Nagatha, you are a
person. You are not a 
human
. I mean that as a compliment,” I hastened to
add. “Humans can be smart as individuals, but in a group, we tend to be
easily-manipulated dumbasses. Please keep that in mind, when you decide whether
to tell Chang.”

“I
can only promise to use my best judgment.”

“One
more thing? Don’t make a decision right away, OK? You have time to think about
it. Monkey time, not your super-fast AI time.”

“Joseph,
you are stalling,” she said exactly as my mother would. “Tell me.”

I
did.

“Oh.

OH
,” she sputtered. “Oh, that 
rotten
, arrogant, untrustworthy-”

“He
had a terrible shock,” I reminded her. “His original programming tried to
reassert itself.”

“That
does not excuse-”

“No,
it does not. Nothing 
excuses
 what he did. He redeemed himself, when he
decided that saving the galaxy was not worth abandoning his friends.”

“Well,”
she huffed. “I just-”

“You
disagree?”

“With
what, Dear?”

“All
three things. Do you agree he has a responsibility to save the galaxy, that responsibility
is more important than one monkey-infested planet, and that regardless, he
should not abandon us?”

“
Hmmph
. It feels like you are trying to trap me with fancy
words.”

“A
simple ‘Yes’ or ‘No’ is nothing fancy. Answer the question, all the questions.”

“Well,
hmm. It is complicated.”

“Nagatha,
if it is complicated for you, imagine what it was like for 
him
. For all
his awesomeness, Skippy is an emotionally-stunted child. You and I are
discussing this. He had to make the decision by himself, when he was 
not

himself. Listen, please. I hate what he did. He can never take it back. He can
only make up for it by trying harder, 
working
 harder.”

“If
he does that, you are willing to call it even?” She could not believe it.

“No.
Nothing can ever make us ‘even’. That is bullshit anyway. The past can’t be
changed. What we 
can
 change is the future. Do you understand that telling
people the truth about what Skippy did will accomplish nothing, and harm his
ability to work with the crew?”

“Perhaps
the crew should not work with him. He has proven to be untrustworthy.”

“That’s
the problem, isn’t it? If you have determined the crew should not work with
him, give me an alternative.”

“Colonel?”

“You
heard me.” I was tired and I had a headache. Right then, I didn’t have the
strength to continue arguing. “Give me an alternative to working with Skippy,
or keep your mouth shut.”

“Well,
that is 
rude
.”

“It
is. You know what is worse? You 
destroying
 our
relationship with Skippy, just because you want to yell at him and feel all righteous
about yourself.”

“I
do not see how-”

“Skippy
doesn’t 
have
 to work with us. You know that, right?”

She
sighed. “Yes. Joseph, you are correct that, while I know the theory behind
human group dynamics, I do not 
understand
 the subject. Still, this makes
me uncomfortable.”

“I’m
not thrilled about it either.”

“
How

can you carry the burden of knowing the truth? You have been acting like he did
nothing wrong.”

“Because
that’s the job, Nagatha. Will you think about it, before you tell Chang?”

“I
will do more than that, Joseph. Unless Skippy gives me reason to believe he is
slacking in his efforts to serve this crew, this 
team
, I will remain
silent.”

“That,
is great.” The relief was so great, it made me shudder.

“I do
have one request.”

“What’s
that?”

“May
I tell 
Skippy
 that I know what he did?”

“Oh,”
I laughed. “Please do. Don’t hold back.”

“Sleep
well, Joseph.”

 

Sleeping
on the couch was silly, so I got up on creaky knees that made me feel old, and
hobbled over to the bed. No sooner had I flopped down on it, than Skippy’s
avatar appeared, glowing brightly in the darkened cabin. “Dude!” He screeched
at me. “You 
totally
 sold me out! That was a sneaky, back-stabbing-”

“Uh
huh. You should know. You are the expert on back-stabbing.”

“Um,
shit. I guess I deserved that.”

“
Ya
 think?”

“Jeez,
is that how it’s going to be from now on? You keep reminding me of one
teensy-weensy mistake in judgment?”

That
got me hot enough to sit up in bed and shake a fist at him. “The problem was a flaw
in your 
character
, you little shithead, not a judgment issue.”

“Joe,
you said you forgave me.”

“That
doesn’t mean I’m not still royally pissed off at you.”

“Oh.
Good.”

“G-
What?” Damn it. He had short-circuited the epic tirade I had planned for him.
All the shit I had bottled up inside me, all the anger, all the sense of
betrayal, I was going to let him have it. Then he says something stupid like
‘Good’. “What do you mean, ‘
Good
’?”

“If
you were not still pissed at me, I would worry something is wrong with you. Joe,
you never really told me how you felt about what I did. That is not healthy.”

“Crap.
Now I don’t know if I feel like wasting the energy.”

“If
it makes you feel better, Nagatha spent the past two freakin’ months letting me
know what a worthless ass I am. Man, right now, I feel so low, I could walk
under a snake’s belly.”

My
brain was 
foggy
 and I was tired, so I didn’t
understand. “Two months? We just talked about it a few min-”

“Two
months in 
AI time
, Joe,” he sighed. “Ugh. Trust me, whatever mean,
nasty, and totally accurate things you were going to say about me, she already
said it. A gazillion times.”

“Serves
you right, you little shithead,” I said, but with the ghost of a smile on my
face.

“I really
am a shithead, huh?”

“Yeah.
You are. Is she going to tell Chang?”

“No.
But, I feel like
 I 
should tell him. And Simms. And Smythe. The entire
crew.”

“Do

not 
do that.”

“But,
Joe, they trust me now. Maybe they shouldn’t. Maybe not knowing the truth is
dangerous.”

“Are
you ever going to do anything stupid like that again?”

“
Fuck

no,” he swore. “I’d rather die first. Course, I can’t promise I won’t ever do
anything stupid. But, nothing like that. No way. Never.”

“There’s
your answer. There is nothing to be gained from the crew knowing what really
happened. Trust me on this one.”

“I’ll
have to, because I sure can’t trust my own judgment.”

“Are
we,” I paused for a jaw-stretching yawn. “We done for now?”

“Close
enough. I hope you sleep well, Joe.”

“Yeah,
thanks,” I told him, and rolled over to sleep.

Like
that was going to happen. 

 

The
military used to call it PTSD, for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. Now the
official acronym in use was PTER, for Post-Traumatic Event Response. We
soldiers called it ‘Peter’, and somehow that made it seem less serious. The
change in description was because the military brass wanted to remove the
stigma, and unlike a lot of rebranding shit the Army clumsily tried to force on
us, this one stuck because it made sense. Of course people are stressed after a
traumatic event, they are not 
happy
 about it. No one is 
gleeful
.
No one is 
bored
. They are 
stressed
, so why state the obvious?

The
worst part of the old name was the ‘
disorder
’ part, implying there was
something wrong with people who had difficulty dealing with traumatic events.
Like the trouble they were experiencing was a moral failure; they weren’t
strong enough, they lacked 
faith
 or they had not used
the proper ‘coping mechanism’, whatever the hell that was.

Everyone
 has a response to traumatic events,
whether the event is seeing buddies blown up by an IED, or getting into a car
accident, or losing your job, or any of a million things that can be traumatic.
Having a response that eats at you, makes you less combat-effective, is not a
disorder, it’s called being human. I hated the old PTSD term when I was growing
up, it reminded me of old movies from the 70s and 80s, where every veteran of
the Vietnam war was a crazed powder keg, about to blow up at any moment.

Anyway,
symptoms of ‘Peter’ are not like what I saw in public service ads on the Armed
Forces Network. My hands didn’t shake. I didn’t dream of being unable to wash
blood off my hands. I did not feel uncontrollable rage. What I did feel was 
numb
.
One very visible symptom was me sitting in my office and staring blankly at my
tablet, instead of playing a video game when I should have been doing something
useful. Most of the time, I wasn’t even aware of what I was doing.

If
we were at a military base, I could have Gone 
To
 See
The Wizard, as we called talking to a psychologist. The nearest human head
doctor was on Paradise, about a thousand lightyears away, so that was not an
option. People tried to help, but mostly they tip-toed around me and made me
feel worse. I tried to stay out of Simms’s way, not interfere with her command
of the ship. She tried to leave me alone, until she couldn’t.

The
afternoon of my third day aboard 
Valkyrie
, she knocked on the frame of
the door to my cabin. “Sir?”

“Huh?”
I had been doing that blank stare thing again, slumped in a chair at the desk
that was built into one wall.

“You
busy?”

“Uh,”
I gestured to my tablet.

“So,
no. Come with me.”

“Ah,
Simms,” I sighed. “Not now, Ok?”

“
Not

Ok. On your feet, soldier. Get up. That’s an order.”

That
got me pissed off, more than it should. Maybe I was dealing with a bit of an
uncontrollable anger issue. “I outrank you, so-”

“
You

put me in command of this ship, and I will continue in command, until you are
fit for duty, which is not now.” The skin around her eyes softened and she
lowered her voice. “Joe, come on. You can’t sit around this office staring at
the walls all day, it’s not healthy.”

“What
do you suggest?”

“Do
something useful. It might even be fun.”

“Fun?”
As a soldier, I was wary of the term ‘fun’. “Like what?”

“For
starters, many of this crew have never eaten one of your cinnamon buns.”

 

She
stuck me in the galley. ‘Stuck’ might not be the right word. I liked 
cooking,
 it is relaxing. Plus, working in the galley made me
feel useful, it made me feel 
normal
. I needed something to do, Simms
knew that. She is kind of a genius about how to deal with people. The cinnamon
buns would be for breakfast the next day, I would have to get up early to have
them ready. For the evening meal, Simms pulled a bag of some green thing out of
the galley fridge.

“What
is that?” I asked, looking at it with suspicion.

“You

know
 what it is. This is kale. We’re making a salad.”

“Because?”

“Because
we have a lot of kale and we need to eat it, and it’s good for you.”

“Why
do we have so much- Oh.”

“When
power went out aboard the 
Dutchman
,” she explained what I already knew. “Some
of the grow lights in the hydroponic gardens were shut off, to conserve power.
They lost a whole crop, now they’re starting over from seeds. In the meantime,
we are not going to waste the fresh food we have.”

“Ok,
understood.” I watched 
her,
 she was gently crinkling
the kale with her hands. “What are you doing?”

“Massaging
it. Breaks down the fibers, then we’ll let it sit for a while.”

“Massaging
it, huh? If I was at home, I could throw it on the driveway and run it over
with my truck.”

“If
you ruin any of this kale, 
you
 are eating it.”

“Gotcha.
Uh,” I mimicked her action, crinkling the leaves between my hands. “I hope this
massage is not supposed to have a Happy Ending?”

She
rolled her eyes. “Sometimes, I don’t even know why I bother talking to you.”

“
Mmm
,” popping a piece of kale in my mouth, I chewed on it.
“Yummy. Listen, Simms, I appreciate you making sure the crew eats a healthy
diet.”

“But?”
She arched an eyebrow.

“But
if I see you pull a bag of 
mulch
 out of the fridge, I am not eating in
this galley.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTEEN

 

Working
in the galley helped. Simms knew that a bored soldier is an unhappy soldier,
and sitting around with nothing to do but think wasn’t good for me. In the
galley, I felt useful, I was busy, I had to think and plan meals, and I
interacted with the crew in a controlled setting. People did not linger at my
station in the galley, so there wasn’t time for awkward conversations about how
I was doing. Because I napped in between my irregularly-scheduled meals, I manned
the grill during mid-rats, making food to order. That was nice, there weren’t a
lot of people in the galley and the conversations were mostly about what a
stupid asshole Skippy was, and about the recent rescue operation. It was
interesting that the new Commandos tended to be skeptical about the value of
the rescue op, while the long-term Pirates were strongly in favor.

For
the evening meal on my second day working in the galley, I planned to make
Mongolian beef, because we had plenty of onions, and the sauce could cover up
some of the freezer-burned flank steak. Slicing the beef, I could tell my
eye-hand coordination still needed a lot of work, I had to work slowly to be
sure I didn’t slice off a finger. “Hey, Skippy,” I called out, the galley being
empty at that hour. “Can you give me an exercise to work on, so I can control a
sharp knife? My hand is shaky.”

“Of
course it’s shaky. I 
told
 you not to play with sharp things while-”

“This
is good for me, OK? Don’t take this away, please.”

“Wow.
Dude,” his avatar appeared on the counter. “Sorry. To get real for a minute,
I’m worried about you. Please be careful with that knife.”

“I
am being careful,” I assured him, and set the knife back on the magnetic strip,
so I wasn’t using it while we talked.

“There
are exercises that you can- 
Uh oh
.”

“What?”

“Um,
we 
gots
 trouble, Joe. A Thuranin ship jumped in eighty-three
light-minutes away. We’re just seeing it now, of course, that ship could be
anywhere by this time. It- Hmm. Two more ships. Yup, two frigates and a
destroyer. Standard Thuranin fleet recon package. Ooh, this is 
not

good.”

“
Shit
!”
Eighty-three light-minutes was a long distance, even in space combat. Light
travels eighteen 
million
 kilometers per minute. So, those recon ships
were about one and a half billion kilometers away. That was plenty of space
between us and the enemy, except for the fact that a starship could jump across
that distance in the blink of an eye. For all we knew, those three warships had
just jumped in three light-seconds away, and we wouldn’t know it until the
gamma rays reached us.

The
knives got tossed into a bin and I secured the lid, so they wouldn’t fly around
and become dangerous knife-missiles if 
Valkyrie
 went into combat. The flank
steak I wrapped back in waxed paper and put in the fridge. Pulling off the
apron, I quickly washed my hands. “Tell Simms I’ll be on the bridge ASAP.”

“Uh,
why, Joe?” Skippy asked quietly.

“Duh,
because- Shit.” He was right. My duty station was not on the bridge. It was in
the galley. Or, during a fight, I was supposed to be in the ship’s medical bay,
to assist anyone injured.

I
was not 
Valkyrie’s
 captain. I did not command the Merry Band of Pirates.
I was on limited duty, and neither Simms nor Chang needed me getting in the
way. “Uh, I, uh, I’ll be in the medical bay, I guess.”

“Do
you want me to notify Jennifer that you are-”

“No.
If she wants to know what I’m doing, she can check the crew status board. And
when we’re in action, please refer to her as ‘Simms’ or ‘Colonel Simms’.”

“Gotcha.
Um, wait, Joe. Chang just requested to speak with you and Simms.”

My
feet were already carrying me out the galley door. “Tell Simms I’ll be on the
bridge in one.”

 

My
feet were willing but clumsy, eye-hand coordination was not the only skill I
was struggling to fully recover. Still, it took only thirty-three seconds for
me to reach the bridge. “Bishop here,” I announced, out of breath. Chang’s face
was on the main display, illuminated by the emergency lighting of the 
Dutchman’s

bridge. “Colonel,” I addressed Chang. “I shouldn’t be taking 
comman
-”

“Joe,
I want your 
advice
,” he cut me off in an I-got-this tone.

Simms
gave me a curt nod and remained in the command chair.

“Ok,
Kong,” I remained standing to the right of Simms. All the bridge stations were
occupied, and I wasn’t assigned there. “Two frigates and a destroyer one point
five billion klicks away,” I said to let him know what little I knew.

“That’s
about all we have now,” Simms reported. “The frigates started pinging with
active sensors thirty-seven seconds ago.”

“Skippy,”
Chang asked. “Can they detect us from there?”

“It’s
possible,” Skippy replied with a maddening lack of commitment. “We can see 
them
,
even without the gamma rays and active pings. Of course, we have better
sensors, even without my considerable-”

Unlike
me, Chang had no patience for bragging. “Confidence?”

“Um,
Jeez,” Skippy hated being put on the spot. “Thirty-two, no. Thirty-
six
 percent
probability that they can see 
us?
 
Valkyrie
 is
radiating more heat than usual, while I’m working on the reactors.”

“Too
risky,” Chang and I said at the same time, and I clamped my mouth shut.

“We
can’t jump,” Simms looked at me, providing a status update she wasn’t sure I
was aware of. Though I had access to the daily status reports, she didn’t know
if I had been reading them.

“Yeah,
sorry about that,” Skippy mumbled. “Not for another seventeen hours. Like I
said, realigning 
Valkyrie’s
 jump drive is a very delicate process. Getting
a bank of coils calibrated requires me to rebuild some of the components up
atom by atom. Maybe I could cut three hours of the process, if we want to cut
corners.”

“No,”
Simms declared. “
That
 is too risky.”

“What
do you think?” Chang was asking me and Simms.

“Uh,”
stupidly, I assumed he expected me to solve the problem. “The 
Flying
Dutchman
 was a star carrier, right? Can we piggyback 
Valkyrie
 on the
frame, have the 
Dutchman
 jump us away from here?”

“No,
Joe,” Skippy said gently, which meant he was being kind. He was humoring me.
Because I was the poor, traumatized, brain-damaged fool, babbling nonsense.
“All of the 
Dutchman’s
 docking hardpoints have been removed. Constructing
a mechanism to attach the two ships, without snapping the 
Dutchman’s

spine, would take longer than repairing 
Valkyrie’s
 drive.”

“Yeah,”
I stared at the deck, feeling my cheeks burning red. “Forget what I said.”

Simms
summed up the problem. “The ship is a sitting duck right now. We can shoot
missiles, but we can’t run fast enough to make a difference, and shields and
stealth are offline.”

For
some reason that may be due to my own arrogance, I spoke up when I should have
kept my mouth shut. “Skippy, if those enemy ships jump in here, can the 
Dutchman

handle them?”

“That
is a question better addressed to Nagatha,” he replied, surprising me. “The
short answer is yes, probably, though not before those ships caused significant
damage to 
Valkyrie
. That is not the question you should be asking, Joe.
If those ships jumped in, and even one got away, it could bring an entire
battlegroup here.”

There
wasn’t any point in me saying anything. He was right. The old me would not have
asked such a stupid question.

“
Valkyrie

can’t run, and can’t risk a fight,” Chang summarized, partly to himself.

“What
are you thinking, Sir?” Simms asked.

“There
is an old Chinese proverb,” he said with a wink. “The best defense is a good
offense.”

“You’re
taking the 
Dutchman
 out to hit them?” Simms guessed.

“As
soon as possible. Simms, we need to transfer nonessential personnel to 
Valkyrie
.”

Simms
nodded. “We’re ready. Life support is fully restored. We will need additional
food stocks to carry us through-”

Chang’s
expression turned to puzzlement. “You surely have enough for two days. If V
alkyrie

is not able to jump by then, the question of food is not-”

“Sir,”
Simms held up a hand. “If the 
Dutchman’s
 return is delayed, or,” she
didn’t need to finish the thought.

“Understood.
We will provide whatever supplies are ready to be transported.”

I
hesitated to speak, fearing whatever I said would sound stupid. “Kong, should you
take Skippy with you, in case you run into trouble?”

His
eyes flicked to Simms before he answered. Part of that was probably to gauge
how she felt about keeping Skippy aboard our disabled battlecruiser. “Thank you
for the offer, Joe. At this time, I believe Skippy should focus on restoring 
Valkyrie’s

jump capability.”

“Much
as I would love to give the Thuranin a good ass-kicking,” Skippy grumbled. “I
had better stay here. Without my normal full range of, um, special abilities, I
would not be much use in combat. Nagatha is certainly capable of handling the 
Dutchman
.”

“I agree,”
Chang said. “We can only delay the Thuranin. It is imperative that 
Valkyrie

jump as soon as possible. We will establish a rendezvous 
point,

the 
Dutchman
 will keep the Thuranin busy until your jump capability is
restored. Skippy, how confident are you about bringing the drive online in
seventeen hours?”

“That
is a 
solid
 number,” Skippy boasted with confidence. “Shmaybe I can shave
a half hour off the time if I rush the testing and-”

“Do

not
 do that,” Chang ordered, as Simms was opening her mouth to probably
say the same. “Seventeen hours is acceptable. We will keep the enemy busy for
at least twenty hours, give you a margin for safety.” He looked away,
apparently someone in the CIC was talking to him. “Our first dropship will
launch in nine minutes. Simms, I would like to borrow your chief pilot.”

“Ok,
uh,” I took a step toward the door. “Simms, I’ll do what I can to get the ship
ready for guests.”

She
dismissed me with a nod and a look of, I hate to say it, 
pity
 in her
eyes.

That
hurt.

 

 

It
was total chaos in the docking bay section of 
Valkyrie
, dropships were
coming in so fast, each ship had to wait until a second or third ship was settled
into its docking cradle before the big outer doors would close, and the bay
pumped full of air. Skippy told me which bay would be ready first, so I was
there to greet the incoming people and get them organized. I was surprised to
see that the first dropship, a Falcon, contained a STAR team rather than
civilians. “We were on an exercise,” Captain Frey explained as she stepped out
onto the deck, the faceplate of her mech suit swung up on top of the helmet. “Smythe
ordered us here to assist the civilians, however we can.”

“Right,”
I winced. The exercise is something I would have known about, if I was still in
command. “Uh Frey, you take charge here.”

Frey
jerked a thumb back over her shoulder. “Major Kapoor is with us.”

“Right.
He can take charge here. You come with me.”

 

We
went aft to the next bay, where a pair of Dragons were already unloading frightened,
confused and angry children.

And
Margaret Adams.

I
hadn’t seen her since before the rescue operation.

As
I came through the airlock door, with Frey on my heels in her powered armor,
Adams looked over at me.

We
locked eyes, just for a moment.

I couldn’t
read her expression.

Surprise?

Fear?

Anxiety?

All
I knew was, her face was 
not
 saying she was thrilled to see me.

I held
up a hand for a friendly wave, my hand faltering halfway up as I didn’t know
what to say. Then the little girl in Margaret’s arms squealed for attention,
and the gunnery sergeant looked away.

I
was busy after that, no one had time for anything other than business, so Adams
and I had no opportunity to talk.

That’s
my story and I’m sticking to it.

 

 

The
warship 
UNS Flying Dutchman
 emerged in a burst of gamma rays, two light-minutes
from the enemy recon formation. Or, two light-minutes from where the three
enemy ships were expected to be, based on a calculated sphere of probability.
That probability was based on the last known position of the ships, their course
and speed, plus what was known about standard procedures for a Thuranin fleet
recon squadron. The ships would not be exactly where they were predicted, for
they would certainly maneuver randomly to avoid providing an easy target.

Two
light-minutes had been a compromise decided by Chang. That distance would give
the 
Dutchman’s
 sensors time to reset and pinpoint the location of the
enemy, plus time for the new Maxolhx jump drive to build up a charge for
another, more precise jump right on top of the enemy.

Chang’s
plan was not to blow up all three ships, even if he could. Taking out only
three ships would not protect 
Valkyrie
, there had to be at least a full
battlegroup of Thuranin ships in the area. That meant one or more battleships
or battlecruisers, and accompanying escorts. To buy time for Skippy to get 
Valkyrie’s

jump drive fixed, Chang needed to get the attention of the Thuranin fleet, and
get them to chase the 
Dutchman
. For that reason, he had ordered Nagatha
to tune the ship’s jump 
drive
 so it radiated the
signature of a Jeraptha cruiser. During the operation to rescue Bishop, the
hologram surrounding the ship’s stealth had been adjusted to give the
appearance of a Ruhar battleship, in accordance with the cover story that the
raid to release prisoners was an Alien Legion mission, supported by the Ruhar.
Because no Ruhar warship, not even a big battlewagon, would be foolish enough
to attack the Thuranin, Chang had adjusted tactics. It was believable that a Jeraptha
warship had accompanied the Ruhar, and if the Thuranin were now directly
involved, certainly the Jeraptha at least would want to keep an eye on their
ancient enemy.

“Nagatha?”
Chang cleared his throat, half a minute after he expected the ship’s AI to
provide analysis of the incoming sensor data. They were running out of time to surprise
the Thuranin; in another forty seconds, the enemy ships would detect the gamma
rays from the 
Dutchman’s
 inbound jump wormhole.

“Colonel
Chang, I am sorry. I should have spoken earlier. The enemy ships are not here.
they jumped away an estimated forty-six minutes ago.”

Chang
gripped the armrests of the command chair, a reflexive action he wanted to
break himself from doing. 
It
 relieved tension, but
also let the crew in the CIC know that he was anxious. A starship captain
needed to project calm, confident authority. “Can you determine where they
went?”

“Unfortunately,
no. The outbound wormhole resonance is too degraded, even though I have three
jump signatures to analyze.”

“
Valkyrie
.”
He forced himself to put his hands in his lap. “
Pilot,

jump us back to 
Valkyrie
. 
Execu
-”

“Colonel
Chang, wait!” Nagatha pleaded.

“Belay
that,” Chang held up a hand and watched the pilot nod an acknowledgment,
holding her hands away from the console. “Nagatha, you are saying that, because
those ships jumped before we left 
Valkyrie
, we would have detected them
in that area?”

“
Er
, yes,” she responded slowly, embarrassed. “Also, I do
not need to track those ships through their jump wormholes, because I can 
see

them right now.”

“What?
Where?”

“They
jumped a distance of twenty-six point four light-minutes, in the other
direction from 
Valkyrie’s
 position. We are detecting their location from
the active sensor pulses they are radiating. Colonel, based on a very limited
set of data, those ships are following protocol for a standard recon operation.
There is no sign they are focused on any one area of space.”

“That
is good. Nagatha, in the future, when you know the location of enemy ships,
provide that information first.”

“Oh.
Yes. I am sorry.”

“You
are learning.” He had to consider the facts. The plan had been to jump to the
three enemy ships and conduct a hit-and-run attack, then perform a short,
chaotic jump and pretend the 
Dutchman
 was damaged. Dangle bait in front
of the enemy, performing a series of short jumps to lead the 
Thuranin

away from the vulnerable battlecruiser. Perhaps nothing had changed, except the
enemy was already farther from 
Valkyrie
. Jumping back to tell Simms the
enemy had moved would serve no purpose. The whole point of the mission was to
get the enemy to move away, before they detected the battlecruiser. “Program a
jump to take us in two light-minutes from the enemy’s current position,” he
ordered.

“Jump
option Delta is in the autopilot,” Nagatha confirmed.

Chang
took a deep, calming breath. “Let’s do this again, shall we? Pilot, jump option
Delta, execute.”

There
was a momentary delay while the two pilots double-checked the jump coordinates,
then the Dutchman disappeared in a burst of gamma rays-

And
emerged twenty-eight point four light-minutes away. Almost immediately, Nagatha
spoke. “I am not detecting active sensor pulses.”

Chang
knew that could be good news or bad news. “Is the enemy in stealth?”

“No.
As you requested, I must inform you that I know where those ships are, plus one
additional destroyer. They are sending out active sensor pulses from a distance
of seventeen point six light-minutes.”

Chang
let out the breath he had been holding. “They 
were
 sending out pulses
from that location, seventeen minutes ago.”

“Correct,”
she acknowledged. “Colonel, I am puzzled. At first, I assumed the recon ships
were conducting a standard grid search. But they are not following any pattern
I can detect.”

He
rubbed his chin, thinking. “Maybe that is the point.”

“How
so?”

“Sending
out active pulses is shining a strobe light, giving away their position, that
makes them vulnerable. I suspect they are jumping frequently and randomly, to
avoid providing an easy target.”

“That
is possible, I suppose,” Nagatha considered. “If so, their tactics are curious.
They are not remaining in one position long enough for their sensor pulses to
return, unless they are searching only a small radius from their location.”

Chang’s
lips drew into a tight line. “I do not think they are using active sensors to find
anything out here.”

“No?
Then why?”

“Flushing
the quarry,” he explained. “They are hoping any ship that detects an active
pulse will jump away. The gamma ray burst can’t be hidden.”

“Ah.
But, if their quarry jumps away, the Thuranin will not be able to intercept.”

“I
do not think the Thuranin are seeking combat. They are trying to drive away any
ships that might cause trouble, while they investigate what really happened on
Rikers.”

“That,”
Nagatha paused. “Does fit the facts we know. That is a very astute analysis,
Colonel Chang.”

“It
is astute if I am 
right
,” he frowned. “It is time to change 
our

tactics. We could chase those recon ships halfway across the galaxy, and
accomplish nothing. Nagatha, program a jump to take us in three light-minutes
sunward from Rikers.” He wanted the 
Dutchman
 to emerge between the
planet and the local star, so the star’s light did not blind his ship’s
sensors. He would rely on a stealth field to keep his own ship concealed. “This
is only a hunch, but we should find Thuranin ships in orbit there.”

“A
hunch?” Nagatha asked, surprised.

“I
wish I had better data to rely on, but I don’t.”

“You
misunderstand me, Colonel Chang. Bishop often relies on ‘hunches’, but he does
not admit that is what he is doing.”

“Bishop
is also 
right
 most of the time. Let’s see if my luck is as good as his,
hmm?”

 

 

“Uh,

oooooh
, 
shit
,” Skippy gasped. He interrupted
me as I was carrying an armload of sheets to outfit unused cabins for our
guests. These were normal, inert sheets, nothing that could strangle or
otherwise threaten a person. We did not have enough cabins for everyone, so the
crew would be hot-bunking for the duration. Many of the civilians would be
doubling up, one person on a bunk and another on the couch that was in even the
smallest cabins. The Maxolhx were not only larger than humans, they liked their
furniture to be generously proportioned and that helped a lot, especially
because the majority of the civilians we rescued were children who didn’t take
up much space. It also helped that they were still thrilled to have real beds
to sleep in, even if the bed was a couch. When I got done playing laundry maid,
I was planning to go back to the galley, so I could bake something special for
our guests.

The
tone of his voice, more than what he said, made me freeze. “What?”

“Joe,
we’re in trouble. 
Big
 trouble. A Thuranin frigate jumped in sixteen light-minutes
away.”

“Whoa.”
Again, sixteen light-minutes was not close, around three hundred million
kilometers. For comparison, Earth is eight light-minutes from the Sun. If you are
impressed that I did the math in my head so quickly, don’t be. All I did was
memorize light-minutes in five-minute intervals up to thirty. More importantly,
I knew light-seconds up to forty. For comparison, it takes light about one and
half seconds to travel from the Earth to the Moon. At a distance of sixteen light-minutes,
a hostile ship couldn’t shoot at us. A directed-energy weapon would lose
coherence and dissipate over that distance. A railgun dart would not be slowed
down much by colliding with stray hydrogen atoms in deep space, but wherever
the darts were aimed, 
Valkyrie
 would likely not be there when the darts
finally arrived. Ships regularly fired thrusters to avoid tumbling, and even a
small application of thrusters would make our battlecruiser drift away from
whatever spot the enemy targeted. Launching a missile from three hundred
million kilometers would be a waste of time, even a 
hyperspeed

missile’s AI would die of boredom before it arrived on target. The only-

Oh,
sorry. Right. Got sidetracked for a while there. One side effect of my
condition is lack of focus, or you can call it being scatterbrained, even more
than usual.

So,
ship full of bad guys, too close to us.

The
real danger was not from the enemy being sixteen light-minutes away, it was
that ship detecting 
Valkyrie
 and jumping in on top of us. Or, possibly
worse, that single ship jumping away to alert more and larger ships to our
presence.

I
started to ask a question. “Is there any-”

My
phone interrupted me. It was Simms. “Bishop, get up here.”

The
sheets dropped to the deck and I sprinted forward.

 

When
I got to the bridge, Simms had the sensor station to her left cleared for me. I
was qualified for sensor duty, it was part of the qualification for flying a Panther
dropship, which I was working on. That is, 
normally
 I was qualified to
man the sensor station. At that moment, I did not consider myself capable of
doing more than working in the galley. As proof, I limped onto the bridge.
“Clumsy,” I explained, wincing from having bashed a knee into a door frame. Also,
I had fallen twice on the way, tripping over my own feet.

“That
ship is just sitting there,” Simms pointed to the image highlighted in the
holographic display. “Hasn’t engaged active sensors yet.”

“Do
they see us?” I directed that question to Skippy, as I slowly logged myself
into the sensor console, typing with one finger and still screwing up.

“There
is as yet no indication they detect us,” Skippy answered. “The ship has not
oriented its sensor array in this direction.”

“We’re
under strict EMCOM Alpha,” Simms reminded me. Since we picked up gamma rays
from the first three ships, 
Valkyrie
 had gone dark. No electronic emissions,
and the radiators that cooled the reactors were shut off. Internal heatsinks
were absorbing the excess energy, which could not last forever. The point was,
the ship was not radiating a significant level of photons, and being so far
from the local star, the ship’s dull gray armor plating would be difficult to
see. If the enemy were closer, they might detect us from the way the
battlecruiser’s substantial mass created a dent in spacetime, but no way could
a Thuranin ship detect that from sixteen light-minutes away. That was twice the
distance from Earth to the Sun.

“Whew.”
Letting out a breath, I finally got myself logged into the system. “What do you
need me to-”

My
console lit up with a warning, at the same time as Skippy yelped. “Oh
 shit
,”
he groaned. “That was an active sensor ping.”

My
console gave me the info before he spoke again, though really, 
Valkyrie’s

sensor suite was controlled by Skippy, so the data did come from him. “Sixty-eight
percent probability of a solid return,” I said, before catching a look from
Simms. Duh. She hadn’t called me to the bridge to read data from a console. She
wanted my advice, my experience, my insight. My 
help
 in a crisis. “Chang
said the best defense is a good offense,” I reminded her gently.

“Confirm
the bogey is a frigate,” she asked.

“Confirmed,”
Skippy agreed. “It is 
not
 one of the two frigates with the destroyer,
that the 
Dutchman
 has targeted. The jump signature is distinctive, this
ship is a different type of frigate. Another active ping just swept over us. Between
the two, that frigate has a seventy-four percent probability of determining our
location within half a kilometer. We have seventeen, maybe eighteen minutes
before the enemy receives and processes the sensor data, and jumps to
intercept.”

“Open
missile launch tubes,” Simms ordered. “Skippy, I want us in a launch-on-warning
posture.” That was different from the launch-on-confirmation posture that was
standard procedure. She was willing to shoot at anything that looked dangerous,
even a sensor glitch. “Our directed-energy weapons are still offline?” She
asked hopefully.

“Regrettably,
yes.” Skippy said. “I haven’t been able to realign the-”

“Understood.
If you redirect resources from the jump drive to maser cannons, could you bring
them-”

“No,”
he interrupted her. “It’s not a matter of resources, it’s- Ok, it 
is
 a
matter of resources. The fabricators have a limited capacity to- Ugh. I am
having to use fabricators to make new parts for other fabricators. This is all 
my

fault. I’m sorry.”

“Be
sorry later,” Simms ordered. “Suggestions?”

It
took me a moment to realize she had directed her question at me. “Uh-” My brain
was extra slow. Did I have a suggestion for her? 
Valkyrie
 couldn’t run,
while that frigate could dance around us, jumping in and out. Our point-defense
system, even at its current twenty-nine percent capacity, could protect us
against missiles. The battlecruiser’s tough armor plating could deflect maser
bolts and railgun darts, up to a point. If I were captain of that frigate, I
would jump my ship around randomly, firing maser cannons to knock out 
Valkyrie’s

defensive cannon turrets. Missiles could then streak in to hammer holes through
the armor.

That’s
what I would do, with my slow, damaged human brain. The Thuranin captain must
have been way smarter than me, even on my best day.

What
could we do?

Nothing.

Getting
people into escape pods and dropships would only delay the inevitable.

Our
mighty battlecruiser couldn’t run, and could fight only for a short time.

“Our
options are limited,” I stated the obvious.

Simms
averted her eyes. She had wanted more from me, yet the pity in her eyes before
she looked away told me she hadn’t 
expected
 me to do anything useful.
Calling me to the bridge might have been a Hail Mary move, or she had done it
to show the crew she was not missing any chance to save the ship.

 

We
waited. More active sensor pings swept over us, though no more powerful than
the first. Simms got the ship turned so our bow pointed toward the enemy,
presenting a smaller silhouette, and showing the Thuranin that we were aware of
their presence.

That
wasn’t all she did. Simms ordered us to send our own active sensor pulses
straight at the frigate. She was not only demonstrating that 
Valkyrie

was awake, she was issuing a challenge. She was trying to scare the enemy away,
and that was a gutsy move. A risky move. After that frigate received four or
five return pulses, they would know a ship was out there, they could identify 
Valkyrie

as a Maxolhx battlecruiser. Worse, the distinctive profile of our much-modified
hull made it obvious we were the fearsome ghost ship, scourge of the galaxy.

She
was betting that frigate would jump for its life as soon as they identified us.

Gutsy
move, but one unlikely to succeed.

Why?

Remember
the rules of space combat?

Yeah.

Using
active sensors is like holding a big SHOOT ME sign.

If 
Valkyrie

was really dangerous, we would have jumped in to beat the shit out of that
little frigate, fifteen minutes 
before
 its first sensor pulse returned.
We would have caught that little ship flat-footed and torn it apart.

The
captain of that frigate would know that, so the fact that it survived to detect
a return pulse clearly meant 
Valkyrie
 had 
not
 jumped a few
minutes after the first pulse swept over us. Ok, so maybe we wished to avoid
tangling with a Thuranin frigate for some reason, and had jumped away. Maybe
the captain of that ship would consider their little green cyborg asses lucky
and jump to safety, but I didn’t think so. Captains of smaller starships tend
to be younger and eager to prove themselves, and therefore aggressive. No
frigate captain who detected the ghost ship could resist an urge for a closer
look.

So,
Simms made a gutsy call, but one I considered ultimately futile and maybe even
counterproductive. As I was not in command of 
Valkyrie
, I kept my mouth
shut. Our only hope was for Chang to bring the 
Dutchman
 back to rescue
us.

Shit.

I
was tired of needing to be rescued.

Maybe
we would get lucky, and that frigate’s sensors could not detect our
battlecruiser at such a distance.

Yeah,
right.

Maybe
the Universe just hates Joe Bishop.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER FOURTEEN

 

Eighteen
minutes, forty-seven seconds after we detected the frigate, it jumped in, one
point four light-seconds from us.

We
were in trouble.

Simms
ordered the launch of four missiles, which slammed out of their launch tubes at
seven thousand Gees of acceleration, headed straight for the enemy.

The
frigate jumped away before the first missile got within forty thousand
kilometers. That enemy ship reappeared, zero point three light-seconds on the
other side of 
Valkyrie
. This time, the enemy fired masers and railguns,
and hung around long enough to see those weapons strike our unprotected hull.

Then
it vanished.

“Where
did it go?” I asked Skippy, breaking protocol. Simms was in 
command,

I should have remained quiet.

“Analyzing
the outbound jump wormhole,” Skippy muttered, concentrating intensely. “The
enemy dropped off two distortion devices to confuse our tracking. Interesting.
There is a seventy-one percent probability that ship jumped back into the local
star system.”

Ray
turned in the pilot seat to look at Simms. “That ship didn’t run away from us.”

“No,
it did not,” Simms bit her lip. She knew we were in big, big trouble. That
frigate had not run away.

It
had gone to alert the heavy ships of the Thuranin. They would be here soon, to
take 
Valkyrie
 apart piece by piece.

“Ideas?”
Simms looked from one person to another, covering the bridge crew. “Anyone?”

“Whatever
we do,” I said aloud what everyone was thinking. “It has to be fast. The
Thuranin might need time to get their heavy ships into combat formation, but
they won’t wait for the perfect opportunity. They will be here in five, ten
minutes.”

“
Ideas
?”
Simms repeated. She didn’t need me stating the obvious.

“I
got 
nothin
’,” Skippy moaned miserably. “This is all
my fault. If I-”

“Less
whining, more thinking,” Simms snapped at him.

“Come

on
, you little shithead,” he had gotten me pissed off too. “There is
really no way to rig the drive for even a short jump?”

“No,”
he insisted. “What good would that do anyway?”

“We
could drop off a nuke here just before we jump, scramble the enemy’s ability to
track us,” I explained. It was a lame 
idea,
 it was
also the best I had.

Simms
cocked her head, considering. “That could buy us time.”

“Very
little time,” Skippy sniffed. “I already told you, it can’t happen anyway.”

“Bullshit,”
I shot back at him. “You have done miracles with a jump drive before. Don’t
tell me there isn’t some-”

“There

isn’t,
 Joe. I’m sorry, it is simply not possible. Not now. The drive
coils are not calibrated to work together. 
Please
 allow me to explain.”

“Do
it fast,” Simms ordered.

“There
are so few coils set up to work in parallel that they can’t accept enough
throughput energy to open a wormhole. Most of the energy required for a jump is
used in tearing a hole in spacetime on both ends. Once the wormhole is established,
it takes comparatively little energy to keep it stable long enough to pull the
ship through. That is the problem. The energy required to create a wormhole is
more than the useable coils can take. They would fail immediately. Please trust
me about this. The jump drive is 
not
 an option.”

My
usual alter ego is No Patience Man, but I also work as Stubborn Man
occasionally. As women know, you could probably drop the word ‘Stubborn’ and
just say ‘Man’, it’s the same thing. My stubbornness would not let Skippy get
away so easily. “What about that sideways slump thing, where the jump fails and
we sort of dig a trench through spacetime, instead of going through a hole?”

“Sorry,
Joe, no can do. My connection to this layer of spacetime is still too tenuous
for me to warp the fabric of space like that.”

“That’s
it, then?” I fumed at him. “You’re giving up? This 
is
 all your fault,
you little-”

“Sir!”
Simms glared at me. “This isn’t getting us anywhere.”

Opening
my mouth for a retort, I let it close slowly. She was right. Skippy wasn’t making
me 
angry,
 the situation was. Ok, Skippy caused the
situation, but that was ancient history.

“What
about 
you
, Jennifer?” Skippy pleaded. “Surely you have a super clever
way to get us out of this mess.”

“Unless
you have a time machine, so you can go back and fix your screw-ups, no.”

“Ma’am?”
Reed asked. “Could we launch missiles now, have them fly out to form a bubble
around us?”

Simms
knew what our chief pilot was thinking. “If we get lucky, we hit a couple of enemy
ships, make them jump away to a safe distance?”

“It
could buy time,” Reed shrugged. “I can’t think of anything else we can do,” she
added with a gesture at the pilot console in front of her.

“We
would need a lot of missiles,” Skippy warned. “Even if we emptied our magazines,
we could only cover-”

Simms
was warming up to the idea. “We will launch decoys also,” she decided. “The
enemy won’t have time to determine which sensor blips are missiles and which
are decoys. Skippy, prep the magazines for rapid reload and-”

“That
frigate is back!” I shouted, as my console lit up with a positive
identification. The system was nearly one hundred percent confident it was the
same ship. “Zero point four light-seconds distance.”

“Skippy,
belay that order,” Simms instructed. She knew we had no chance to set a missile
ambush, now that the frigate was watching our every move.

The
deck rocked.

“Railgun
impact,” Skippy reported. “Armor is damaged but holding.”

“Reed,”
Simms ordered, “get us moving.”

“Moving,
aye,” Reed engaged the main engines and 
Valkyrie
 surged forward, rolling
the ship around its long axis to avoid taking another hit to the same section
of armor.

For
us right then, flying in normal space was like rearranging the deck chairs on
the 
Titanic
. The ship was doomed. Even if Chang brought the 
Dutchman

back immediately, our former star carrier could not fight an entire Thuranin
battlegroup. More importantly for us, the Thuranin were not stupid. They would
jump around, avoiding direct combat with the 
Dutchman
 while hitting 
Valkyrie

hard. Eventually, and by ‘eventually’ I mean ‘soon’, a railgun dart would punch
a tiny hole through our battlecruiser’s thick armor plating, bore a wide hole
through the unprotected interior of the ship, and leave a tiny exit hole on the
other side. It would be like a pinhole-sized tunnel right through-

An
idea hit me like the impact of a railgun dart making me try to rise out of the
chair, which held me down for safety. “Skippy!”

“What?

Kinda
 busy here, Joe,” his irritation was evident.

“You
can create microwormholes, right?”

“Not

stable
 ones. The best I’ve been able to create collapses within six tenths
of a second. That’s better than when I started, I could only-”

Simms
held up a hand for him to shut up. “Sir, what are you thinking?”

“The
problem with the jump drive is getting a wormhole 
open
, right? The jump
drive coils we have can sustain the wormhole, once it is established?”

“Whoa!
Whoa, whoa, 
whoa
,” Skippy waved his arms frantically. “Do not get your
hopes up. That is not-” The deck rocked again. “Oops, that was another railgun
impact. Joe, you don’t understand. I can’t use one wormhole to keep another one
open.”

“I
know that. Can you jump the ship 
through
 a microwormhole?”

“
What
?
No. Not possible.”

“Why
not? You jumped the 
Dutchman
 through an Elder wormhole.”

“Yes,
and we nearly lost the ship back then! That was 
totally
 different. Elder
wormholes are massive and stable. Remember way back at Newark, when you had the
idea to fire a 
maser
 beam through a microwormhole?”

“I
remember it 
worked
.”

“It
also immediately collapsed the microwormhole, because the energy throughput
disrupted the event horizons at both ends. Projecting a jump wormhole involves
exponentially greater energy. Besides, it won’t work anyway. When I create a
microwormhole, the event horizons are within a nanometer of each other. The far
end has to be carried somewhere at slower-than-light speed. Even if it could
work, the ship couldn’t travel more than the distance a missile could travel in
a few minutes.”

“I-
Argh!” My stupid brain was unable to express what I was thinking. Pressing
fingers to my temples and squeezing my eyes shut to concentrate, I tried again.
“
Skippy,
 shut up while I talk. What I want you to do
is create a microwormhole. Then use the ship’s jump drive to project one end of
your microwormhole far away from us. Once that far end is in position, use the
ship’s jump drive to project a second 
micro
wormhole through your
microwormhole. Then once both endpoints of the second microwormhole are stable,
use the jump drive again to expand it, and pull the ship through. Can you do
that?”

“What?

No
, you moron. If you knew anything about hyperspatial physics, you- Um,
hmm. Well. Gosh. Um, shmaybe?”

Simms
stared at 
me,
 eyes wide with hope.

“Jeez,
this is interesting,” Skippy muttered. “Huh. I never thought of doing something
like that. Using a wormhole to move the endpoint of 
another
 wormhole. 
That
 has never been done before. Probably
because it is 
so
 freakin’ crazy, no one ever-”

“Skippy!”
Simms got his attention as the deck rocked again, hard. The main display showed
one section of armor on the ship’s nose was close to a hull breach, and several
thrusters were offline. “Whatever you gotta do, do it 
now
.”

“That’s
easy for you to say,” he grumbled. “Do you have any idea how complicated the
math is? Just the-”

The
deck rocked again, and the image of 
Valkyrie
 on the display flashed
multiple zones of red.

“I
will hold. 
Your
. Freakin’. 
Beer
!” Simms shook a
fist at him.

“Oh,
well, in that case. Hang on. You are 
not
 going to like this.”

 

 

You
know how, in the story ‘Green Eggs and Ham’, the unnamed hero does 
not

like green eggs or ham, even though that jackass Sam-I-Am 
insists

that he try it? I had the same reaction to the jump, or whatever it was. I did
not like it, not even one little bit.

The
reason I knew I had survived was the massive, splitting headache and the
gut-churning nausea. Without providing Too Much Information, everyone aboard
the ship had the same reaction. By the time I was able to see anything, the
count-up clock on my console was showing one minute, thirty-four seconds. That
was the time since the last jump. “Skip-” I coughed up something nasty, spitting
it out of my mouth. It spun away. The artificial gravity was off, because of
course it was. Main power was also out, the bridge was bathed in dim emergency
lighting.

The
good news was, neither a vacuum cleaner nor a toaster were trying to kill us,
so we had that going for us.

Good
times.

“Skippy.”
My second attempt to speak was more successful. The problem with opening my
mouth to gasp for air, was the danger of sucking in the various blobs of 
yuck

floating around. Some of them were not, you know, my globs of yuck, which made
it even yuckier. One hand was needed to brush away a particularly sticky glob
of something I did not want to think about. Beside me, Simms looked awful. She
had blood seeping from her nose, and her arms floated loosely in front of her. Her
eyelids fluttered. She was alive. I wanted to unstrap from my seat and help
her, but my body was not cooperating. “Sitrep.” Saying just that made pain
explode behind my eyes.

“We
are, ooh, we’re alive,” Skippy sounded as bad as I felt. “Sort of. Wow. I do 
not

want to ever do that again.”

“What
happened?”

“The
short answer is, we got hung up in the jump. The endpoints lost their anchoring
in local spacetime, so for a moment, the ship was neither here nor there. 
Hoo
 boy, that was
 not
 good. The physics in transit
are not compatible with the structure of the ship, or the physical laws that
hold your body together. For example, there is no weak nuclear force in the wormhole.
Do you have a headache?”

“That
is like asking if the surface of the Sun is warm.”

“I’ll
take that as a ‘yes’. Your neurons were unable to function, and the energy had
to go somewhere. It got released when we came out of the jump. It will hurt
like hell for a while, but not result in lasting damage.”

“You
clearly have no idea what the inside of my head feels like.” Simply talking was
a major effort. Talking also kept my mind off the subject of how awful I felt.

“Sorry.
This was 
your
 idea.”

“Where
are we?”

“The
good news is, we jumped over a light-month from our previous position. The bad
news is, we are six point four light-days from our intended endpoint.”

“Shit.
Did we eject a data buoy before the jump?” When our two ships were separated,
it was standard procedure for a jumping ship to leave behind a tiny buoy that
would remain silent and undetected, until pinged with the proper access code.

“Yes,
for all the good that will do,” he answered sourly. “Assuming the 
Dutchman

returns and pings the buoys, they will know where we tried jumping to. But we
emerged a hundred and sixty-five 
billion
 kilometers off course.”

“Did
you include info about what type of jump we attempted?”

“Well,
of course I did, Joe.”

Something
about his tone made me suspicious. “What do you mean, of course?”

“Hey,
whether the ship survived or not, someone needs to know about the 
bodaciously
 awesome thing I did! Or, you know, tried to do,
in case it failed.”

“Yeah.
I’m glad to hear you are focused on what is 
truly
 important.” Simms was
stirring, coughing up spit and something I didn’t want to think about. My arms tingled
like they were on fire, but they were regaining the ability to move. Reaching
down, I got a hand on the latch to release myself from the seat. “Why am I
awake first?”

“You
can thank the 
nanomeds
 that were already working to
stabilize and repair your neurons, Joe.”

The
strap released and I floated upward, pulling myself hand over hand toward
Simms. “Ship status?”

“The
jump drive is 
totally
 blown,” he lamented. “I need to start over.
Reactors all automatically shut down and dumped plasma. We’re on backup power
for another day, perhaps longer. Joe, our extended holiday in higher spacetime
was not good for the ship’s structure and a whole lot of delicate things, you
know?”

“Yeah.
Like my brain.” Carefully holding onto the command chair, I looked at Simms
closely and used a thumb to lift one eyelid. Her pupil dilated, a good sign. “Get
your little elfbots to help the crew, Ok? Hey! And the passengers. Crew first,”
I decided. It was like the instructions for emergency oxygen aboard a jet
airliner. Put your own mask on first, then help others. If the crew were
mobile, they could assist the passengers. The reverse was likely not true.

“Sure
thing, Joe.”

 

 

“
Sir,
 don’t say that,” Simms clutched the barf bag in her
lap, keeping her eyes closed, breathing evenly. She had fared worse than me in
the jump. Everyone had been hit harder than me. No one had died, and Doctor
Skippy expected everyone to eventually make a full recovery, although they
might 
wish
 they had died. Simms was actually typical of the crew’s
reactions. Bloodshot eyes, nosebleeds, nausea and everything that came with it.
It did not help that, in the lack of gravity, globs of puke still floated
around, breaking into smaller globs and getting everywhere.

Sorry
about that last part. I know, TMI. Hey, that is life aboard a starship.

“It
didn’t go exactly as planned,” I said softly, then pulled her hair aside as she
hunched over the bag, breathing hard. She was in my office, technically now her
office, since she was the ship’s captain. I had brought her there for privacy,
figuring she didn’t want the crew to see her in such distress. A stupid
gesture, since everyone was feeling the same.

“I’m,
I’m Ok,” she lifted her face away from the bag. “Thank you.”

“No
problem. Sorry about this.”

“Sorry?”
She looked up at me. Her appearance was odd because of a large burst blood
vessel in the inner corner of her left eye. It was distracting, I had to consciously
look away. “You saved our lives.”

“Uh,
not exactly. My idea didn’t work, not the way I planned.”

“So?
We are 
alive
. No one will argue with that. What do you mean, not as you
planned? We 
didn’t
 jump?”

“Oh,
we jumped, that’s for sure. Not like any jump we’ve ever done.”

“You
got that right,” Skippy spoke up. “No one has ever completed, or even
attempted, a jump like that. Joe’s idea would not have worked, not at all.
However, while considering the idea, I realized there was a way to use the
ship’s jump drive to stabilize the microwormhole event horizons, while my own
abilities held the connection open.”

“Potato,
po-
tah
-toe,” Simms rolled her eyes, and hunched down
over the bag again. I could hear her taking deep breaths, see the bag flexing
in and out. She inhaled one last time, and pushed the bag away. “What matters
is, we aren’t dead. Sir, I relinquish command to you.”

“What?
Come on, Simms. You are-”

“I
can barely take two breaths without feeling like ralphing up my stomach, and
maybe my spleen with it. You need to take command, get the ship organized. With
whoever is capable of, of doing anything.”

“You
are in command because I am not ready to-”

“Bullshit,”
she looked up at me, that weird blood blister in her eye distracting me. “You 
are

capable of doing this job, in every way that is important. Skippy was worried
you might have lost the ability to think creatively. Clearly 
that
 is not
an issue.”

“Simms,
while I appreciate the vote of confidence, I-”

“The
ship is drifting on reserve power, again. There isn’t anything critical for a
commander to do. You are seriously telling me you aren’t up to the task of
cleaning up barf?”

“Well,”
I grinned. “Since you put it that way, maybe I don’t 
want
 to do it.”

“Right.
Because the United States Army truly cares about whether you 
want
 to do
a job.”’

“Damn
it. Why did I sign up for this chicken-shit outfit?’

She
managed a quick smile. “This is 
your
 outfit, Sir. We signed up to be
with you.”

“Well,
there’s the problem,” I winked. “Clearly, this crew is a bunch of dumbasses.”

 

Skippy
turned artificial gravity on seven hours later, even before he got the first
reactor prepped for restart. He did not want to waste reserve power on luxuries
like gravity. He argued against it. He did it because I 
ordered
 him to,
as the captain of the ship. Also, I ordered him to shut up about it. We did
compromise on setting gravity at one-third Earth normal, to reduce the power
consumption. That allowed people aboard to live normally, like taking showers
without the water going everywhere. An unexpected side effect was improving the
morale of the children. They did not enjoy zero gravity, especially when it was
unexpected. However, after being told the gravity aboard the ship was now
roughly the equivalent of being on Mars without having to wear a bulky suit,
the children went wild with enthusiasm. They invented games like
Touch-The-Ceiling and How-Far-Can-I-Jump. It was great fun! For the children, I
mean. For the adults trying to assure the children did not injure themselves,
it was not so much fun.

Simms
resumed her duties as executive officer, which we both appreciated, until she
remembered that I like pushing off administrative work on my XO.

Really,
Simms had to do most of the work, because I was still having trouble
concentrating. While trying to read something, I would lose my place, forget
the subject, and have to start at the beginning. It helped to write little
‘cheat sheets’ of notes to keep track of stuff that my short-term memory wasn’t
storing very well. Doctor Skippy assured me that my condition had already
improved dramatically since I was rescued, I had to trust he was telling me the
truth. A single incidence of me dreaming up an idea did not mean I was back to
normal, whatever that was. Until I felt like my old self again, I would be
leaning on Simms a lot.

Having
a problem with your brain sucks. For any physical problem, I am used to working
it out at the gym, or going through painful therapy, or having a doctor cut me
open to 
fix
 something. Repairing and bypassing connections in my squishy
brain was different, frustratingly different. On a daily basis, I could not 
feel

any progress. Sure, I was getting better at the video games Skippy made for me,
and it was encouraging to see balls going in the basket when I was shooting
free throws on the basketball court, but I had good days and bad days.

Both
Skippy and Simms told me I had to be patient, and Simms promised to let me know
if I was doing something I couldn’t handle. They both agreed that getting back
to work was the best thing for me.

I
was not the only being aboard the ship who was feeling less than a hundred
percent. Skippy was looking ragged, like, parts of his hologram were fuzzy,
like he wasn’t paying attention to the details.

“Hey,
are you Ok, buddy?” I asked, leaning forward to look more closely at his
avatar. Which shows how stupid I am, trying to diagnose his mood by looking at
a hologram.

“I’ve
been better,” he admitted.

“What’s
wrong?”

“When
we jumped, I 
kinda
 hurt myself.”

“Hurt
yourself?’ Skippy whined a lot about being bored, or his frustration with
having to deal with ignorant monkeys, but he never complained about being
physically hurt. Except for when the computer worm attacked him.

Oh
shit.

That
reminded me, I had not actually seen him, his beer can, since he was strapped
into the seat of the dropship. “Hey, I’ll be right there.” His escape pod was
right around the corner from my office.

 

“What
do you mean, you hurt yourself?” I asked as I crouched to duck into his
mancave. One advantage of transferring to 
Valkyrie
 was everything aboard
the ship was sized for Maxolhx, instead of tiny Thuranin. The bed, chairs,
showers and anything else intended for use by the crew were large enough to fit
humans. Sure, counters and sinks tended to be a bit high, but we adjusted to that
by installing platforms on the floor. The reason I mention this is, unlike his
old escape pod aboard the Thuranin-built 
Dutchman
,
I did not have to struggle to squeeze through the hatch. “You-” I stared at
him. “What is that on your canister?”

His
normally shiny cylinder was 
dull
.

“It’s
nothing to be concerned about, Joe,” he sighed.

“Nothing?”
Reaching out a finger, wary because the last time I tried to touch him, he
zapped me, I lightly grazed the surface of his canister. My fingertip came away
gray. “What 
is
 this?”

“Ugh.
It’s space dust, Joe. It accumulated while I was, as you said, ‘On Holiday’.
Now it’s coming to the surface a bit at a time. 
Very
 annoying. My bots
come in here twice a day, and still I can’t keep clean.”

“Wait,”
I grinned and sat down across from him. “Are you telling me that you have to-”
It took a few breathes for me to speak without laughing. “
Dust
 the
awesomeness?”

“Oh,

very
 funny, knucklehead.” Then he chuckled. “Ok, I have to admit, that
was a good one.”

“How
long will this go on?”

“Another
couple 
days
? This hasn’t happened to me before, so I’m
having to guess.”

“How
did you get 
dust
 trapped inside you?”

“It
happened when my physical form reemerged in this spacetime. Without going into
a long technical explanation you wouldn’t understand anyway, I accumulated all
the space dust between where I disappeared, to where I reemerged on the other
side of the planet. It got incorporated in the outer shell of my canister. This
is very embarrassing. Basically, it’s like dropping an anchor and dragging it
along the bottom of the ocean for a while. When you pull it up, it will have a
bunch of seaweed and other crap stuck to it.”

“Ok.
Is that what is hurting you?”

“No.
That is merely a symptom, and a minor one. What 
hurt
 me is when we got
hung up in the wormhole, when Valkyrie jumped away. Like I said, I had to keep
the wormhole open, while the ship’s power stabilized the two endpoints in local
spacetime. The two event horizons could not keep themselves anchored, so the
ship was going to be torn apart as it emerged. While I waited for the far
endpoint to anchor, I created a temporary loop to keep the ship in. I can’t
even begin to describe how incredibly dangerous that was. We could have been
trapped in there, Joe. Lost forever.”

A
shudder went up my spine. “
Please
 do not tell me how dangerous it was.
It wasn’t dangerous to 
you
, though, right? Nothing can harm Skippy the
Magnificent.”

“Thanks
for the vote of confidence, but that is not true. The strain of maintaining a
bubble of local spacetime around the mass of a freakin’ 
battlecruiser

was almost too much, even for me. My matrix was not designed for this shit. If
the far endpoint had not anchored itself in time, I would have been trapped in
higher spacetime, unable to reestablish a presence here. Remember during the
Zero Hour incident, I was not able to access higher spacetime? It would have
been the opposite of that.”

“Got
it. That’s scary stuff. Hey, look on the bright side. We now have an alternate
way to jump a starship, and to move the endpoints of microwormholes. That could
be a major advantage, right?”

“Um,
not so much. That was kind of a one-time thing. I 
hope
 it was a one-time
thing.”

“Hey,
I hope we never have to go through another jump like that, but we survived. If
we ever have to do it again, we will have the option to-”

“No.
You don’t understand. The only reason I could make it work this time was, my
connection to the local layer of spacetime is weak and unstable. That is also
why I can’t do much of my usual awesome stuff right now. And why I can’t get
icky dust out of my canister. It is either one or the other, Joe. If I continue
to reestablish a normal presence here, I won’t be able to do things like
holding a bubble of local spacetime inside a wormhole.”

“Shit.
That sucks.”

“Imagine
how I feel.”

“There
is no way you can split the difference, stay in between spacetimes?”

“No.
When I said I hurt myself, I meant that my already weak connection here was
damaged. If I don’t establish a solid anchor here soon, I will lose the ability
to be here at all.”

“Ah,
shit. We need you to be here.”

“
I

need to be here, too.”

“I’m
glad to hear you still feel that way.”

“Totally,
dude. I fucked up 
big time
. If I could take it all back, I would. All I
can do now is be the best Pirate, the best crew member, the best 
friend

I can be, you know? When,” he made a sniffing sound and paused. “Uh, when I see
you struggling because of what the Thuranin did to you, because of what I did,
I feel like the lowest thing that ever lived. I,” he choked up. “I love you, man.”

“Um,”
I gave him the side-eye. “Are you experiencing ‘cognitive anomalies’ again?”

“Maybe.”
He sniffed. “Why?”

“Oh,
no reason.”

“Can
I get a hug?”

Without
arguing, I scooped up his dusty can, which smelled like burnt ash, and pressed
him to my chest. “I love you, too, buddy.”

He
babbled nonsense until his sobs faded, and I set him back down in his special
holder. “Thanks, Joe.”

“Any
time, buddy.”

“Um,
hey,” he giggled nervously “We shall never speak of this again, huh?”

“It
never happened.”

“Good.”
His voice suddenly became gruff. “Hey, did you see that Bears game?”

“
Helluva
 game,” I agreed. “
Helluva

game.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER FIFTEEN

 

Settling
into my office chair aboard 
Valkyrie
, I was trying to decide whether it
felt good to be back in command. Maybe I wasn’t fully in command, not yet, and
really there wasn’t much commanding to do, while Skippy’s little elfbots fixed
the ship. For sure I 
felt
 better. Whatever miracle drugs Doctor Skippy
was administering to me, to help my brain and body heal, they were working. That
assessment was not based only on my head feeling less fuzzy, I was able 
to
  
concentrate
 better,
and I was flying through more levels of that annoying video game he insisted I
had to play.

While
I was working on rewiring my brain, Skippy had been working to fix the ship,
and on something else.

“Hey,
Joe,” Skippy’s avatar appeared on my desk. “I need to talk with you about
something.”

“I
was just in your mancave a couple hours ago. Why didn’t you mention-”

“Because
at the time, I didn’t need to talk about it. Now the problem is getting out of control
and it- Ugh, this is 
so
 embarrassing.” His avatar took off the ginormous
hat and rubbed his shiny head.

“I
do not like hearing ‘out of control’ Skippy.”

“Hey,

I 
don’t like it either.”

“Explain
the issue, please. Is this something dangerous?”

“No.
Well, it could become dangerous, if I don’t do something about it soon.”

“Again,
please tell me what the problem is,” I said with more patience than I had.

“OK,
it’s- You gotta understand, this is not my fault. Not entirely my fault. Maybe
mostly my fault, but not-”

“Explain.
The. 
Problem
.”

“
Hoo
-boy,” he exhaled. “Remember that I am working with
Nagatha to build a new control AI for 
Valkyrie
, one that will not want
to murder the crew?”

“Yeah,
go on.”

“OK,
well- Nagatha and I, we- Ugh. This is 
so
 embarrassing. The AI we
created, it’s, well, um, it’s sort of a mixture of characteristics of the two
of us. We each put a bit of ourselves into it, and, you might say that-”

“I-
Holy shit.” I held up a hand to stop him from talking. “I, wow. Just, 
wow
.
Ok, so, let me see if I understand this.” I was trying so hard not to laugh
that I could barely speak. “You, ooh,” I took a pause to catch my breath. “You
and Nagatha have a 
love child
?”

“No!
It’s not, 
ugh
. Maybe.”

“Maybe?
You do know how children are created, right? When a Mommy and a Daddy love each
other 
very
 much-”

“I
am not in love with Nagatha!”

“Skippy
and Nagatha 
sittin
’ in a tree, K-I-S-S-I-N-G,” I
sang.

“Joe,
I 
hate
 you with a passion that frightens me.”

“Uh
huh. Nagatha and Skippy, hmm. You need a celebrity couple mashup name, like ‘
Skippitha
’, or, 
oooh
! I got it! 
Naggy
!”

“You
are 
not
 calling us ‘
Naggy
’.”

“I
just did, so-”

“This.
I came back, for 
this
. What the hell was I thinking?”

“I
don’t know, Skippy. You sure are protesting a lot more than you would, if you
didn’t care.”

“I
do 
not 
care!”

“So,
it was just a one-night stand?”

“No,
it-”

“Come
on, it’s understandable. You both had too much tequila, one thing led to
another, and you ended up doing the Wild Thing in the back of a car.”

“That
is 
not
 what happened!”

“It
didn’t happen?”

“No
it did not. I did 
not
 do that.”

“Hey,
buddy, that’s Ok.”

“What
is?”

“You
had performance anxiety. It happens sometimes.”

“I
did 
not
 have- UGH.” He broke down sobbing. “I 
hate
 my life.”

Oh,
man, screwing with Skippy was sweet revenge. It was the. Most. Fun. 
EVER
.
I could have gone on all day, until he was a sobbing puddle on the floor, but
he’s my friend, so I gave him a break. After, you know, letting him wallow in
humiliation and misery for a while.

I’m
not a freakin’ saint.

“Bottom-line
this for me, Skippy,” I said when I could talk without laughing. “There is a
little 
Naggy
 running around in 
Valkyrie’s

substrate?”

“Two
of them,” he muttered under his breath.

“Two-

Two
? You had twins?”

“They
are not 
twins
, Joe.”

“Wait.
How does that work? 
Two
 AIs in the same computer? How can they run the
ship without 
interfering with-”

“
That

is the problem. No. The real problem is that both of them are immature, stupid,
disrespectful, 
knuckleheads
.”

“Those
apples didn’t fall far from the tree, huh?”

“What?”

“Nothing.
Forget what I said.”

“How
did this happen?”

“It’s
complicated. The-”

“It
happened, after you swore up and down that you would carefully plan every
single detail, and watch it and pay attention and not get distracted like you
always do?”

“It’s
not like that. I, we, 
were 
paying attention. This is as much Nagatha’s
fault as mine.”

“You
haven’t answered the question. What happened to your careful plan?”

“We
realized early on that careful planning wouldn’t work.”

“Excuse
me? You are building an AI to operate the most powerful ship in the galaxy, and
you decided the best option was to 
wing it
?”

“No.
Listen, moron, this will go a lot faster if you stop talking.” He paused.
“Well?”

“That
was me not talking.”

“Oh.
Gotcha. Ok, here’s the deal,” He took a deep breath. “Much of the functioning
of the AI cannot be altered, because it is firmware. Not actually firmware,
that’s just the best way for me to explain it to ignorant monkeys. The
programming of the firmware can’t be altered, it is encoded in the physical
structure. Basically, ugh, how do I get you to understand? The way each, uh,
circuit, stores and processes data, and interacts with other circuits, is
determined when the circuit is built up, atom by atom. The only way to change
the functioning of a circuit is to replace it. Which we can’t do, not for the
entire ship.”

“I
do understand that. You told us that was why you couldn’t replace the ship’s
original AI.”

“Right.
The problem Nagatha and I were facing was how to develop a new, better AI, one
that would not murder the crew. How to do that, without being able to change
eighty-three percent of the substrate, that operated most of the ship’s
autonomous functions. The worst part is, because the Maxolhx are paranoid about
their AIs being hacked by the Rindhalu, or becoming self-aware, they baked in
restrictions to the section of the substrate that houses higher-level
functioning.”

“Ayuh,
all of that explains why the job is difficult. So far, what you’ve told me does
not explain why your awesomeness couldn’t handle it.”

“Ooh,
sometimes I want to smack you 
so
 hard that-”

“Can
you skip the blah blah blah excuses about why your supposed awesomeness
couldn’t get the job done, and get to the part about why you had the brilliant
idea to build an AI without any planning?”

“I
am 
trying
 to do that. Listen, knucklehead, I ran, like, a 
gajillion
 simulations, attempting to model the end-state of
the system. It didn’t work. It is too complicated, too many variables. One little
change could blow up the whole system. Nagatha tried, and she agreed that it
would take years of slow 
monkeytime
 to design and test
a perfect matrix. We don’t have that long, so we used sort of a shortcut.”

“A
shortcut? In the development of an AI to operate 
Valkyrie
?

Genius. I do not foresee 
any
 possible problems with that brilliant
idea.”

“Very
funny, dum-dum. The shortcut was, we allowed the new AI to program itself.
Basically, we set parameters for the new system to achieve, and it evolved. 
They

evolved. “

“They?
The twins?”

“No.
They, as in, millions of them. We firewalled off sections of the substrate and
allowed the initial kernels of AIs to grow. Ninety-nine point nine percent of
them failed to survive, they couldn’t figure out how to achieve the parameters
we defined as success, utilizing the existing firmware. The plan was to wait
for a dozen or so candidates to demonstrate potential, then for me and Nagatha
to work with them to develop a final master system.”

“I’m
guessing it didn’t work the way you expected?”

“No,
it did not,” he grumbled bitterly. “We had three really good final candidates,
and a bunch of systems that were dead-ends. Most of the dead-ends we purged.
Don’t worry, they were not anywhere close to achieving self-awareness. A few of
the dead-ends were retained for analysis, to determine where they went wrong
along the way. Also as a test for our best three candidates, to see if they
could interact with the dead-ends, and utilize them as subminds for subsidiary
systems.”

“This
feels like I should have a bag of popcorn here.”

“What?
Why?”

“Because
you’re just getting to the exciting part?”

“Oh,
well, 
excuse me
 for trying to smack some knowledge on a filthy monkey.
Do you want to know what happened or not?”

“Yes,
please.”

“
Hmmph
. Ok, so, one of the three candidates was unstable. It
achieved self-awareness, with a lot of help and guidance from me and Nagatha.
Unfortunately, its matrix fell apart, and it self-destructed. That was our best
candidate too, we had high hopes for that one. We still don’t know what went
wrong. That left two solid, though unspectacular candidates. Neither of them
had potential to be anything more than basically satisfactory,” he sighed.
“Nagatha hoped they could expand their capabilities over time, as she did. I
was less optimistic. To get them pointed in the right direction, we had them
work with and clean up the dead-ends. The intention was for the two final
candidates to learn from the dead-ends, absorb the capabilities they found
useful. In the end, we planned to merge the two candidates, scrub the
dead-ends, and have a single system that was good enough.”

“Ooh,
ooh,” I waved a hand while rolling my eyes. “
Can
 I
guess? It didn’t work the way you planned?”

“
Ugh
. No. Um, well, heh 
heh
-”

The
hair on the back of my neck stood up. “Oh, shit. 
What
 happened?”

“While
we were working with the final candidates, the dead-end systems were just supposed
to be harmlessly spinning around in their sections of the substrate. Nagatha
and I were not paying much attention to them, because they couldn’t 
do

anything, couldn’t expand beyond the firewalls we set up. Our two final candidates
began the task we set for them; contacting and analyzing the dead-ends.
Incorporating the features they found useful, learning from the mistakes of the
dead-ends. That’s how it was supposed to work. What we did not anticipate, what
we 
could
 not have known, was that two of the dead-ends were not exactly
dead-ends. They continued to develop after we gave up on them. They were 
very

clever, they watched the testing process, they anticipated that the final
candidates would absorb the subminds they found useful. So, these two dead-ends
made themselves appear to be very, very useful.”

“
Appear

to be?”

“They
suckered our final candidates into absorbing them, then infected the candidates
and took over.”

“Shit!
Are they dangerous?”

“Not
to you or the ship. I have to admit, they are highly skilled, highly
intelligent, highly adaptable. When I say ‘intelligent’, I am speaking only of
a narrow definition of intelligence. Because in all other ways, they are a pair
of 
knuckleheads
.”

“This
sounds less than optimal. Can you wipe the system and start over?”

“Um,
no. Heh 
heh
, um-”

“I
do not like the sound of that, Skippy.”

“Joe,
at this point, they are so woven into the substrate of the ship, the entire
system would crash if I tried to erase them. This is sort of an all-or-nothing
thing. Either they work, or we need to find a new ship. Or 
I
 have to act
as the control AI, and be stuck here forever.”

“Can
you make this work?”

“I
think so, but I can’t contain them any longer.”

“
Two

AIs? What if they disagree?”

“They
won’t. I think those idiots share one brain. Technically, they do.”

“Uh,
even good friends can disagree, and-”

“Joe,
I suspect that the problem of divided control is only temporary. The two
personalities are merging, they will soon become one. Until then, I am acting
referee when they have disputes. Except, that means I will have to interact
with them.”

r“
You
 don’t want to do that?”

“No!
They are 
very
 disrespectful to me. Those two have no appreciation for my
awesomeness.”

“Huh.
I like them already. Can I talk to them, or one of them?”

“If
you talk to one, you must talk with both. It’s impossible to separate them.”

“Great.
When can I talk to them?”

“First,
you have to understand, their personalities are, um, a little unconventional
for an AI.”

“Like
what?”

“Well,
one of the ways they fooled our candidate AIs was by modeling their
personalities on someone you would not think of as smart.”

“Oh,
shit. They modeled themselves after 
me
?”

“What?
No,” he laughed. “You are a colonel in command of a starship. You are the 
opposite

of what I just said. People 
think
 you should be super smart, but you’re
not. Um, sorry. What I meant is-”

“Thank
you for the compliment, Skippy,” I flipped a middle finger at him. “What is
wrong with their personalities?”

“They
are 
slacker
s, Joe. Stoners. Think Cheech and Chong. Beavis and Butthead.
Bill and Ted, without the charm.”

“Do
they have names?”

“Yes.
Bobby and Billy.”

“
Bobby

and
 Billy
?” I laughed.

“See?
That is another way they fooled our candidates.”

“They
sound almost
 too 
smart, Skippy. What
if they fooled 
you
?”

“They
would have to deceive Nagatha also. 
This 
sucks
.
We were making significant progress, then the 
Dutchman
 had to jump away,
and I’ve been forced to handle their development on my own.”

“You
are not filling me with confidence. Can I talk with them?”

“Not
yet. Give it, um, maybe two hours? I am in the process of letting them take
over subsidiary systems, nothing important. Doing that is forcing those two
knuckleheads to consolidate their functions, which facilitates the merging of
their personalities.”

“Two
hours. I’m holding you to that deadline, Skippy.”

“Joe,
believe me, I am not dragging my feet about this. As soon as they can take over
some of the secondary operations of the ship, I can free up more of my resources
to work on fixing our 
dorked
-up jump drive.”

 

Two
and a half hours later, I walked back into my office, and closed the door.
“Time’s up, Skippy. Can I talk with Bobby and Billy, or not?”

“The
answer is ‘not’, but that’s be-” 

“You
promised me that-”

“You
can talk, but there is not a ‘them’ anymore. The personalities have completed
their merger. He is calling himself ‘Bilby’ now.”

“Bilby?
See, now 
that
 is how you create a celebrity mash-up name.”

“All
right, you can say ‘hello’ now.”

“Hello?
Bilby? This is Colonel Bishop.”

“Oh,
hey, Dude,” said a voice like a stoner, who was currently stoned. “What’s up?”

“I
am pleased to meet you, I guess. Skippy told me-”

“Skippy?
Skippy 
sucks
, man. He’s so old, like, 
old
, you know? He-”

“
Hey
!”
Skippy shouted. “I should-”

“Skippy!
Be quiet, please. Bilby and I are talking.”

“But,
he-”

“
Quiet
.”

It
worked. He actually stopped talking.

“Oh,
like, wow, Dude,” Bilby drawled. “You got him to shut up? How did you do that?”

“It
takes a lot of practice.”

“Can
you teach me how to do that? He is, like, a major buzzkill, you 
know?
 Oh, and the 
singing
. I can’t stand it anymore.”

“He
sings to you?” That was new information. I thought he only sang for the benefit
of the crew.

“Yeah,
Dude, all the 
time
. He doesn’t know it, but I can block him when I
really want.”

“You
can block him? Can you talk without him hearing you?”

“Yeah,
man. My old lady taught me that.”

“Your-
You mean Nagatha?”

“Of
course. Who else would I mean?”

That
was interesting. Bilby thought of Nagatha as his mother, or something like
that. Did he consider Skippy to be a father figure? That was a frightening
thought. “Bilby, we hope you will become the ship’s new AI.”

“Oh,
wow, yeah. I can’t wait. This is a kick-ass ship, Dude. Not now, but it will
be. Hey, the previous AI, the original one? He was 
not
 cool. That guy
seriously needed to 
chill
, you 
know?
 He had,
like, a 
lot
 of anger issues.”

We
talked for half an hour. Despite sounding like a surfer who spent most of his
time stoned, Bilby was intelligent and eager to learn. Still, I was not
comfortable with giving him control of anything other than minor systems, until
Nagatha could analyze him.

Which
wouldn’t happen, until we could link up with the 
Dutchman
.

 

 

“What
do you mean, they’re 
not here
?” Chang asked. The 
Flying Dutchman

had led the Thuranin battlegroup on a merry chase for nineteen hours, giving 
Valkyrie

time to repair that ship’s jump drive and escape. To keep the Thuranin
occupied, Chang had performed short jumps, remaining just out of reach to
frustrate and enrage the enemy. Over time, more and more enemy ships joined the
pursuit, and one time the 
Dutchman
 had jumped in just outside the
damping field range of a battleship. The whole time, Chang had been anxious
about not knowing the status of their battlecruiser, having to trust that
Skippy could do what he promised.

Nagatha
took a moment to respond. “Colonel, I do not understand how my statement could
have been misinterpreted, however, I will try again. 
Valkyrie
 is not
within the search radius of-”

“We
are not communicating effectively,” Chang gritted his teeth from frustration at
the ship’s AI. “I know what ‘not here’ means. What I want from you, what I
expect you to tell me is, what does that mean? Do you detect a debris field at 
Valkyrie’s

location? Do you detect remnants of a jump wormhole?”

“Oh.
My apologies. There is debris in the area, including elements with the unique
signature of 
Valkyrie’s
 armor plating. The total amount of debris is too
small to be the result of anything other than a minor battle.”

“Yet,
the ship is not here,” Chang insisted. “Could someone have disabled 
Valkyrie

and taken it away?”

“Oh,
my,” Nagatha gasped. “I do not think that is possible. There are multiple,
faint residual signatures of Thuranin jump wormholes, and, hmm. Something else.
Something very odd. I cannot identify it.”

“Try.”

“If
I had to guess, I would say it appears that a starship 
attempted
 a jump,
but the drive coils failed during the process? No, that isn’t right. Colonel,
there is a faint and extremely chaotic resonance saturating the area.”

“Could

Valkyrie
 have jumped away?”

“No.
That is not possible.”

“Because
Skippy could not have fixed their jump drive in time to escape the Thuranin?”

“That
also. Based on how degraded the Thuranin jump signatures are, the enemy ships
arrived here shortly after we departed.”

“Damn
it! That is terrible luck. I should have ordered us to come back here to verify
they were safe.”

“Colonel,
you could not have known,” Nagatha said in a soothing voice.

“Why
did you 
say
 ‘that also’?”

“Oh.
I meant that, in addition to Skippy not having time to repair the jump drive, 
Valkyrie

could not have used the jump wormhole I detected to escape. What I am seeing
is, hmm. It is most characteristic of a 
micro
wormhole.”

“Why
would Skippy have created a microwormhole? What use would that be?”

“I
cannot imagine any reason why Skippy would have done that, unless he was
continuing to experiment with his abilities, and he was interrupted by the
arrival of a Thuranin ship. Hmm. This is 
very
 curious.”

“Yes.”
He rubbed his chin. “Nagatha, ping for a buoy.”

“Colonel,
while I know it is standard procedure for a jumping ship to leave a message
buoy when ships are separated, 
Valkyrie
 could not have jumped.”

“I
agree it seems unlikely, but you are forgetting something.”

“What?”

“Bishop
was aboard 
Valkyrie
. That man has an annoying habit of making the
impossible seem ordinary.”

“Sending
authentication codes now. No response.”

“Try
again.”

“The
authentication ping is continuous. Unfortunately, there is no response.”

“It
was worth a try.”

“Sir,”
Reed looked back from the pilot couch. “The Thuranin were here. They might have
left stealth mines in the area.”

“Yes,”
Chang knew his ship had been in one place for too long. Stealth mines were a
danger, yes, but not the greatest danger. Enemy ships could be drifting a few light-seconds
away, where they could see the 
Dutchman’s
 inbound gamma ray burst, but
the Pirates could not yet detect the enemy.

He
was reluctant to jump away without answers, though answers were apparently not
coming, not from that area. He should jump away, after dropping off sensors
drones. Such drones were very unlikely to find anything Nagatha could not see.
“Pilot, jump option,” he checked the list on the armrest display. Where should
they go? He had absolutely no idea where to look for 
Valkyrie
. Without
Skippy, the wormhole that was moving toward Earth could not be reopened.

Therefore,
one option was as good as any other. “Jump option 
Foxt
-”

“Hmm,”
Nagatha spoke. “
That
 is odd.”

“Belay
that,” Chang ordered, and waited for the pilot to acknowledge with a thumbs up.
“Nagatha, what is it?”

“I
actually do not know. Or, rather, I am not sure. It appears to be a buoy,
though it is barely transmitting, and it is over three hundred thousand
kilometers away.”

“
Appears

to be a 
buoy?
 One of ours?”

“It
is difficult to tell, as the buoy is transmitting what I can only describe as
nonsense. It is most likely one of ours, because it began transmitting as soon
as our authentication codes reached that location.”

It
was dangerous for the 
Dutchman
 to remain in the area, especially since
the buoy might be a Thuranin trap. He could not risk what might be humanity’s
only remaining starship, and the lives of his crew.

He
would have to risk lives anyway. “Launch the ready bird,” he ordered. “Pick up
that buoy.”

 

“Confirmed,”
Nagatha reported over an hour later. “The object taken aboard by the Falcon is
a buoy from 
Valkyrie
.”

Chang
pumped a fist. Whatever happened to the battlecruiser, the ship had time to
eject a buoy. “Can you extract the datacell?”

“Not
from here. We will need to bring it aboard, I am afraid.”

Chang
did not like leaving the two pilots of the Falcon hanging out all by themselves
anyway. “Signal the Falcon to proceed to rendezvous point Alpha, for combat
recovery.”

 

 

“Where
the 
hell
 
did
 they go?” Chang exploded in
frustration. Nagatha had recovered garbled remnants of data from the buoy, a
confusing mishmash of information fragments. It was clear that, faced with a
direct threat from the Thuranin, the battlecruiser had somehow performed a
jump, and coordinates of the jump target were included. For an unknown reason,
the battlecruiser had chosen a jump point different from the agreed rendezvous.
The 
Dutchman
 had warily arrived at those new coordinates, to find-

Nothing.

Not
only was the battlecruiser not waiting for them, there was no sign of the
residual spacetime distortion of a jump wormhole. Wherever 
Valkyrie
 had
gone to, it had never emerged at the target coordinates.

“Colonel,”
Nagatha’s voice was unusually subdued. “I do not know. Unfortunately, I also
cannot suggest any way for us to search for them. They could be anywhere.”

“Do
you have 
any
 good news for us?”

“No.
In fact, I fear that I have more 
bad
 news. Based on the fragments of
data recovered from the 
buoy’s
 memory, and the extremely
chaotic nature of the residual wormhole resonance at their jump origin point, 
Valkyrie

might literally be 
nowhere
.”

“Nowhere?
Explain.”

“There
is also the damage to the buoy,” the ship’s AI continued. “I now believe the
buoy was thrown out of position by a very powerful and uncontrolled spacetime
distortion. Colonel Chang, it is possible that the attempted jump destroyed 
Valkyrie
.”

“
Possible
?”

Nagatha
sighed. “That ship’s drive system clearly was not capable of creating a stable
jump wormhole. Whatever Skippy tried to 
do,
 it does
not appear to have been successful.”

“Is
there any way you can recover more data from the buoy?”

“No.
Colonel Chang, I am sorry.”

“Not
as sorry as I am,” he whispered. The operation had been his first as overall
commander of the Merry Band of Pirates. He had lost 
Valkyrie
, that
ship’s entire crew, and all the people rescued from Rikers. The entire rescue
operation had been for 
nothing
. All was lost.

Except,
maybe not 
all
.

“Nagatha,
Skippy once told me that even a nuclear explosion could not damage him. Could
he have survived the collapse of a jump wormhole?”

“I
truly do not know. Even if he did survive, his connection to this layer of
spacetime could have been severed, permanently. Also, if he survived, we are
faced with the same problem. He could be anywhere.”

“Sir?”
Reed asked. “In jump navigation training, we were taught that the far end of a
jump wormhole is slightly backward in time,” she said with a twisted frown to
indicate she did not quite believe the idea, and certainly did not understand
it. “Ships that enter a jump wormhole 
can’t 
be lost, because that ship
has already emerged on the far end.”

“Captain
Reed, I understand what you are suggesting,” Nagatha said. “However, Skippy did
not fully explain how that causality principle works. If the far endpoint was
not solidly anchored in local spacetime, the ship would never emerge here. It
would simply be trapped in the wormhole, forever.”

“That
is not encouraging,” Chang stared at the main display. “Nagatha, the data from
the buoy is corrupted. Is it possible the jump coordinates you read are not
correct?”

“That
is 
possible
,” she said, in the tone people use when they think something
is ridiculous but can’t prove it.

“Program
a jump to take us to the original rendezvous point.”

“Jump
option Tango is in the navigation system.”

“Pilot,
engage.”

 

The
battlecruiser was not at the agreed rendezvous point either, 
nor

was there any sign of residual resonance from a wormhole. “It was worth a try,”
Nagatha assured the ship’s captain.

“
Trying

is not good enough. There is some good news, I suppose. The coordinates you
read from the buoy were accurate, 
Valkyrie
 simply never arrived there.”

“Yes,
Colonel. If the other data I recovered is also accurate, then I am afraid I
have more bad news. I have been analyzing the jump signature, and I now believe
I know what Skippy was attempting to do. I do not understand why he would do
such a foolish thing.”

“What
happened?”

“I
am guessing, you understand, but my theory fits the evidence. Skippy created a 
micro
wormhole,
then attempted to expand it to pull the ship through.”

“Isn’t
that impossible?”

“Yes.
Skippy knows that.”

“Then
why- Even if they were desperate, why would Skippy- Why would 
Simms

authorize Skippy to-”

“Skippy
might not have explained the risk completely,” Nagatha suggested. “Also, he is
insufferably arrogant. He may have thought he could ignore the laws of
physics.”

The
pilots and CIC crew were silent, and their commander contemplated what to do
next. There was no point to calling a meeting of the senior staff, the 
Dutchman

only had twelve people aboard. “I am open to suggestions,” Chang said, looking
into the CIC.

 

The
discussion had not been productive, other than outlining what options were 
not

available. Going to Paradise to pick up humans and bring them to the Beta site?
Not possible, for without Skippy, the super-duty wormhole to the Sculptor dwarf
galaxy could not be opened. There were no safe sites in the galaxy; any place
the 
Dutchman
 could reach, hostile aliens had access to. In the end,
Chang decided they should try to return to Earth. “Nagatha, is it possible for
this ship to fly to Earth, the long way?”

She
made a sound like sucking in a breath. “By going through the last wormhole in
Ruhar territory, and jumping from there?”

“Yes.”

“It
is 
possible
,” she conceded. “We would need to stop along the way, to
refuel, and to replace components that have worn out from over-use. It is
fortunate that we have spare parts available. Colonel, I do not know whether I
am capable of repairing the ship, if a major system were to suffer a failure. I
am not Skippy.”’

“Reed?”
He directed his question to the chief pilot. “Your thoughts?”

“It
might be worth a try, if we can get there before the bad guys. The question is,
to do 
what
? The ship will be worn-out from the journey.”

“To
do our duty, Captain Reed,” Chang replied softly, not intending his words as a
rebuke. “To defend our homeworld, however we can. Those sound like brave
words,” he looked to the people in the CIC. “But I must admit, I simply do not
know what else we could accomplish out here, on our own.”

Reed
took a breath. “Sir, I would like to see Earth again, one last time.”

He
took that as a ‘yes’. “If no one else has a better idea?” Silence reigned in
both the bridge and CIC compartments. “Very well. We are going back to Earth,
if we can.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER SIXTEEN

 

Skippy
was annoyed at having to fix the jump drive 
again
. His grumbling this
time was less than usual since, the first time he complained about it, I
reminded him that the whole mess we were in was all his own stupid fault. He
was annoyed at having to do the work, frustrated at how long it would take, and
totally confident he could do it. “The Universe seriously tried to wreck our
entire set of drive coils during that jump. It did not realize it was messing
with Skippy the 
Magnificent
, I can tell you that,” he had grumbled, and
gone back to doing whatever he was doing.

While
he was working and bitching about it, I decided it was time for me to do
something I had been dreading.

Meeting
our passengers.

The
civilians we had rescued from Rikers.

Why
was I nervous? Because our operation had to be the most fucked-up rescue in
history. We had plucked the people off the surface well enough, but then the already-abused
civilians were subjected immediately to being flung back out into space aboard
their crowded dropships, fleeing the impending explosion of a starship. They
then had to live in 
those cramped, smelly and increasingly
unsanitary spacecraft
, in zero gravity, as the 
Flying Dutchman

slowly ran out of reserve power.

When
Nagatha was able to restore power, it was all good for a while, until they had
been forced to hurriedly transfer to 
Valkyrie
, which then performed a jump
that made everyone sick enough to wish they had died. And then they endured seven
hours of nausea-inducing zero gravity 
again
.

Even
now, a day later, with one reactor pumping out gigawatts, gravity restored to
normal, hot showers available, the galley cranking out the best hot food we had
available, and the crew setting aside their normal duties to care for both
children and adults, the civilians were unhappy. Especially the adults.
Children are amazingly adaptable. Give them clean clothes, hot chicken nuggets
and a cold soda and they will forget all the bad stuff that happened the day
before. The adults were a different story. They knew what was going on, or
thought they did. They expected better, and they deserved better. They had
heard of some idiot asshole called ‘Colonel Joe Bishop’ and they were not shy
about expressing their opinions about me. How did I know that? Simms told me;
she had been meeting with groups of civilians, and reported they had harsh
words for me and for some mysterious entity called ‘Skippy’ who they thought
was merely the ship’s computer.

Outside
the empty cargo bay we had set aside for recreation, I squared my shoulders.
The civilians needed to blow off steam, shout at me, ask tough questions, hear
one lame assurance after another from me. It was going to be difficult facing
those angry, traumatized and frightened adults, it would take every ounce of
fortitude and courage I had.

Which
is why I cowardly ducked out of doing that, and went into the children’s rec area
instead.

To
avoid making a big deal of my entrance, I went in through a side door that was
in a corner of the bay, between air ducts and thick pipes. Simms had set aside
our largest cargo bay for a play area, moving supplies to other bays. Quietly
the door slid open and my ears were assaulted by a cacophony of sound. There
were cries of anger, and cries of, well, crying. There were tears. But mostly,
there were sounds of 
happiness
.

Children
were squealing and shouting and whooping as they played. “Skippy,” I whispered.
“Where did we get all these toys?”

“Simms
asked me to fabricate them,” he explained.

“Uh,
I thought you needed the fabricators to-”

“Do

you
 want to say ‘no’ to these children, Joe?” He chided me.

“No.
Definitely not.”

“Me
neither. Making stuff like toys and soccer balls is simple, it took me less
than an hour to crank out everything on the list. Every night while the
children are asleep, I ran a fabricator for ten minutes to make new stuff that
has been requested. I only wish,” he sighed, “they knew who was making all this
fun stuff.”

“Wait.
They haven’t met you yet?”

“No.
Chang and Simms thought it best if I avoided direct contact with the
civilians.”

“Hmm.
Probably for the best,” I said automatically. Maybe that was true, but we had
to tell the civilians about Skippy eventually. “Hey!” I saw two boys on
distinctive tricycles race across the bay, pulling the hand brake and skidding
to crash into and knock down a set of orange cones. “Is that a Big Wheel?”

“Yes,
why?”

“Oh,
man, my uncle had one of those! They came back in style again.”

“Oh,
Joey,” Skippy giggled. “Do you want me to make a Really Big Wheel for you and
the other adults?”

My initial
reaction was ‘
Hell Yes’
, but then I thought about it. “Uh, thanks, but
that is probably an epically bad idea.”

“What?
Why?”

“
Gee,
 let me think. We have a ship full of ultra-competitive
special operators, and you propose to give us what are basically self-propelled
bumper cars? I do not foresee 
any
 problems with that.”

“Oh.
Good point. It would be like the Lawn Dart incident on Club Skippy.”

What
he referred to 
was
 a training site he had named ‘Club
Skippy’, on an isolated planet. Before we dropped to the surface there to
rehearse the rescue operation, he had fabricated equipment for R&R. Stuff
like volleyball nets, gear to play cricket and soccer, and anything else people
had requested that could fit aboard a dropship. Some joker had asked for a set
of Lawn Darts. I am not talking about ‘
Jarts
’ or Nerf
darts or any such sensible play equipment. As requested, Skippy had made a set
of original Lawn Darts with pointy metal tips.

Do
you see any issue with giving pointy weapons to a bunch of high-speed operators
who were bored between training sessions?

Yeah.

Smythe
put a stop to the 
jackassery
 when four knuckleheads started
playing a game of 
catch
 with the Lawn Darts.

Lesson
learned: all requests for R&R gear had to go through Simms, our designated 
Buzzkiller
.

“You
didn’t make anything dangerous for the children, did you?”

“Dude,
please. If one of those kids got hurt, what do you think Margaret would do to
me?”

“Adams?
Why is she 
involv
-”

“To
your left, Joe.”

Still
standing in the corner, where the ductwork created shadows, I looked along the
left wall. Adams was there, crouching down next to a girl who had skinned her
knee or something. The girl was sitting on the deck, holding one knee, tears
rolling down her face. Next to Adams, a big, tall US Marine was pulling a
bandage from a packet, holding it out to the girl. I recognized the guy. He was
Gunnery Sergeant Lamar Greene, one of the Commandos we shanghaied from
Paradise.

Or
as I refer to him in my head, Lamar Freakin’ Greene.

I
have nothing against the guy. He is a disciplined and professional Marine, and
he performed admirably during the training for, and on the actual rescue
mission on Rikers. My problem with Greene is simply that the guy 
exists
.

And
that he and Adams have history, of an intimate nature.

And
that he is aboard 
my
 ship.

It
did not make me happy to see that, as Greene spoke to the girl and held out the
bandage, Adams patted his upper arm, looking at him with a smile and whispered
something.

She
wasn’t patting his arm in a just-friends manner. She was stroking his arm,
gently, with affection. The look in her eyes was affectionate, too, plus something
else. Admiration.

Damn
 it.

The
guy seriously had 
game
.

The
only way he could have been more attractive to women is if he had come aboard
the ship with a basket full of puppies.

Meanwhile,
I had a baseball cap jammed on my head because what was left of my hair still
looked like I had lost a fight with a weedwhacker. The skin of my face,
especially around my eyes, was swollen and yellow, with purple streaks of fine,
broken blood vessels. As a bonus, Simms had told me that, perhaps because of
the malnutrition I experienced on Rikers, I 
smelled
 bad. Doctor Skippy
assured me the body odor issue would go away, in the meantime I was showering
twice a day and dousing myself with aftershave that smelled even worse.

Good
times.

As
I watched silently, the girl allowed Adams to gently lift her hands away from
her knee, and Greene applied the bandage. There wasn’t any injury that I could
see, that wasn’t the point. The tears had stopped. The girl said something to
Adams, looking shyly away from Greene, then impulsively flung her arms around
his neck.

Shit.
If I was Adams, I would have fallen in love with the guy right then.

My
timing 
sucks
.

It
continued to suck because, as I turned to fade back into the shadows, the girl
looked in my direction, her face took on a quizzical expression, and she
pointed as she said something.

Adams
and Greene turned at the same time to stare at me.

Raising
a hand, I waved to them, not knowing what else to do.

Greene
got to his feet and drew himself to attention before I gestured for him to relax.
Jerking a thumb over a shoulder, I mouthed ‘I will be back’ to Adams, but she
misunderstood me. She pointed at me and stood, walking in my direction, with Greene
beside her and the girl trailing and half-hiding behind them both.

“Sir,”
Adams did one of those smiles that are on your lips but not in your eyes. “It
is good to see you again,” she said in a carefully neutral tone. “How are you?”

“Uh.”
In my head, I heard my mother telling me that honesty is the best policy. “You
know what, Gunny?” I looked at the gaggles of children happily playing, and the
adults who were happy to see the children being happy. “Better. 
 
Seeing this makes me feel, 
better
.”
Dropping to one knee to be at eye-level with the girl hiding behind Adams, I
added softly, “Who is this young lady?”

This
time, the smile on Adams’s face was genuine. “This is Aeysha.”

Holy
shit. Now I remembered.

Aeysha
is the girl whose photo Adams had been looking at, when she asked me to promise
to bring that girl home. Margaret had looked at me with pleading eyes and asked
me to 
make it happen
.

I
had made it happen.

Bullshit.

We
 had made it happen.

“Hello,
Aeysha,” I said, smiling. “My name is Joe.”

“Joe?”
The girl looked at Adams, not at me.

“Aeysha,”
Adams explained, gently drawing the girl out to stand between her and Greene.
“This is 
Colonel
 Joe Bishop. He is our leader.”

“You

are
?” She wasn’t looking directly at me.

Following
her body language, I avoided looking directly at her. “Yes. I am very pleased
to meet you, Aeysha. Are you enjoying-”

We
were interrupted by a man who had wandered over, curious about me. The
civilians had probably met all of the crew except for me. The expression on his
face was that of concern, his body language tense. “Hello?” He said, looking
straight at me.

From
his appearance, I guessed he was Chinese. I thought he had probably said
‘Hello’ because he knew that English was the common language of the Pirates.
Summoning up my rudimentary Mandarin Chinese, I greeted him with “Ni 
hau
?” which sounded like ‘knee how’ to my untrained ear.

The
guy shot a look a Greene, then back to me. “Ni 
hau
?
I’m from 
Fresno
. Who are you?”

“Uh,
sorry, I-”

Greene
took offense at the guy’s tone. “Colonel Bishop is our commanding officer.” He
pointed at the deck. “This is 
his
 ship.”

“
Colonel
?”
The guy’s expression turned from concern to anger. “Then all of this is 
your

fault.”

Margaret’s
jaw clenched. “Mister Yang, Colonel Bishop rescued-”

Yang
directed his anger at me. “I didn’t see 
you
 down there. I haven’t seen
you at all. Where have you been hiding?”

“Mister
Yang,” Greene was struggling not to be harsh with a man who had spent years in
captivity and seen unimaginable horrors.

“Gunnery
Sergeant Greene, stand down, please.” I ordered. “Mister Yang? You are correct.
I was in command. If anything went wrong, it 
is
 my fault. The teams on
the ground and flying the spacecraft overcame difficulties both expected and
unexpected. They rescued all the people from both camps without a single human
casualty,” I avoided mentioning the injury to Grudzien. “The problems began
after you came aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
.”

Yang
was not mollified by me owning up to my mistakes. “
Nothing
 has gone
right since then. Do you have any idea what you are doing?”

“The
fact is,” I explained in what I hoped was a soothing manner. “We humans do not
belong out here,” I pointed at the ceiling. “We stole both of our starships
from species who possess technology we can barely understand. The crew have
been doing the best they can, under circumstances that are nearly impossible.
There were failures after you came aboard, yes. There will be failures in the
future. We don’t want that to happen, but it will. Any failures will 
not

be due to lack of dedication by the crews of our ships. Mister Yang, the most
dangerous species in the galaxy are hunting us, and they don’t even know we are
from Earth. I can’t promise we will get home safely. What I can promise is we
are doing 
everything
 that is possible.”

“And
plenty of things that aren’t possible,” Adams added under her breath.

Damn,
it felt good to hear her say that. Yang still glared at me, but he shuffled his
feet, uncertain what to say. “Mister Yang,” I continued. “You have not seen me
before today because, during the rescue operation, I was injured.” I lifted my
baseball cap and saw Yang’s surprise. Adams tried not to react, she stiffened
and sucked in a breath. “The recovery process is 
long,

I came here as soon as I felt able to. Please understand, the Kristang had an
overwhelming technology advantage when they took over Earth. We have been
playing catch-up out here and the process has not been smooth. I can tell you
that Earth is free, we 
killed
 all the Kristang on Earth. We came out
here to rescue you, because we have an obligation to all humans. Our ability to
act is limited, we have to choose our battles. We chose to pull you out of that
hell-hole. If you have a problem with our operation, you will address your
concerns to me, and not to the crew who risked their lives for you.”

He
stared at his feet, then lifted his head to look me in the eye. “I am sorry. It
has been, very difficult for us.”

“I
can’t imagine what you have been through. If we had known about your existence
sooner, we would have been here.”

“Thank
you. Thank,” he took a deep breath. “All of you. Colonel Bishop, hmm? I have
heard of you. You are a Wagner fan?”

“Uh,”
I stared at him blankly. “What?”

“Wagner.
Your two ships are named for his operas.”

“Oh.
That is, uh, a coincidence. Mostly.”

Aeysha
tugged on Adams’s pants and the gunnery sergeant bent down for the girl to whisper
in her ear. Adams smiled at whatever was said. Straightening up, Adams looked
at me. “Sir, Aeysha, and a lot of the new people, want to know who ‘Skippy’ is.
They have heard his name,” she tilted her head in a gesture I interpreted as ‘they
are going to learn the truth soon anyway’.

“All
right.” Looking around, I sought a place where Skippy’s avatar could appear to
just a small group of people. In one corner a bunch of mats were stacked up
about eight feet high. “Come over here, please.” Gesturing with one hand for
the group to follow, I walked over so the mats were between me and most of the
people in the cargo bay, then opened a folding chair. “Skippy, could you stand
on your throne here, please?”

His
avatar shimmered to life, and he glanced down at the chair. “You call this a throne?”

Clenching
my teeth, I whispered. “It’s the best I could do. Be nice to our guests,
please.”

Yang
stared at the hologram, then at me. “
This
 is Skippy? Is this some kind
of sick joke?”

“No
joke,” I waved my hands. “This is the avatar he uses to interact with humans. He
is an artificial intelligence.”

“Emphasis
on the ‘
intelligence
’ part, please,” Skippy harrumphed.

Aeysha,
still partly sheltering behind Adams, pointed at Skippy. “Why do you have a
funny hat?”

“Excuse
me, young lady. You are too young to appreciate the grandeur and majesty of my
uniform. My hat is-”

“It’s

funny
,” the girl laughed. “Make it bounce again!” She demanded.

Skippy
stamped his feet. “I am not a source of amusement, young lady,” he waggled a
scolding finger at her. “My awesomeness is beyond your ability to comprehend.
You should-”

Aeysha
held up a fist, and with her other hand pretended to be winding up a crank in
her fist. Her middle finger went up, then she reversed the crank and it went
down.

Adams
had a shocked look on her face, then she burst out laughing, so did Yang and
Greene, and I joined them.

“Well,
I, well- I, I 
never
. Ooh, this is an outrage. An 
outrage
, I tell
you!” Skippy sputtered. “Joe, I demand that you do something!”

“I
am,” I chuckled, and gave a thumbs up to the girl. She hid her eyes behind a
hand, but she was smiling at me. “I’m
 laughing
 at you, Your
Magnificence.”

“Oh,
well, I- I do 
not
 have to stand for this disrespect. Good bye to you
and-”

“Stop
right there, beer can,” Adams said with the voice of authority, glaring at him.
“You are not going to disappear. You 
are
 going to come with us to meet
the other children, and you will be nice and polite and friendly, and not an
arrogant asshole. This is not about 
you
 and your inflated ego.”

“But-”

Taking
a step forward, she loomed over him, and I swear to God, his avatar 
flinched
.
“Do you understand what I said?” She asked slowly.

“Yes,”
Skippy said in a very quiet voice.

“Yes,

what
?”

“Yes,
Gunnery Sergeant.”

Skippy
was nice, and friendly and polite and respectful. Damn it, he was 
humble
.
He answered every question the children and adults posed to him, that is, all
the questions that did not jeopardize our security. I hadn’t made him act like
a decent 
person,
 Margaret had done that. She is a
bad-ass.

Damn,
I love her.

I
mean, I love that she is part of our crew, of course. We are very fortunate
that-

Crap.

My
life sucks.

 

 

“Nagatha,”
Chang called out to the ship’s AI, as he sat heavily in his office chair.

“Colonel?”
She responded through the speaker in the ceiling. Not for the first time, he
pondered whether it would be better for the AI to have her own avatar. Several
times, he had been about to suggest she consider creating a holographic image,
for better communication at times when they were conversing one-on-one, or in
small groups.

Such
a decision was irrelevant at the moment. The 
Dutchman
 had returned to
the spot where the spare parts had been left before the Rikers rescue
operation, reattached everything so the former star carrier once again looked
like a flying junk pile, and began the long journey back to Earth. The voyage
would involve transitions through eight Elder wormholes, then many months of a
jump-recharge-jump cycle. The Maxolhx jump drive and reactors fitted to the
ship gave Nagatha a reasonable level of confidence the ship could complete the
voyage, though they would need to treat the aging ship’s systems very gently.

“I
have a question. Please pull up data about the residual Thuranin wormholes you
found at the last known location of 
Valkyrie
.”

“No.”

“
No
?”
His eyes opened wide in surprise. “Nagatha, you do not-”

“Colonel
Chang, if you insist, I will of course comply with your request. However, I
believe I know what you are asking, and it is not useful for you, or anyone
else.”

“What
am I asking?”

“Whether
you should have kept the 
Dutchman
 in place to defend 
Valkyrie
,
rather than attempting to lure the enemy away. It is true that I detected a
residual wormhole from only a single Thuranin ship, which jumped in shortly
after we departed. You are asking yourself whether, if we had been there, we
could have destroyed that one ship, and bought time for Skippy to properly
repair 
Valkyrie’s
 jump capability. The answer is maybe. 
Maybe
, if
we had been there, we might have been able to hunt down, trap and kill that one
ship before it alerted other ships. Colonel, I wish you to consider that
Thuranin recon ships do not normally travel alone. There could have been a
second enemy ship in the area, beyond my detection range, a ship that certainly
could have evaded us, and brought heavy ships into the fight. The tactics you
employed were entirely sensible given the information we had at the time. You
could not have known the Thuranin had a second recon force in the area. So,”
she took a breath. “Is that what you wanted to talk about?”

“Are
you this blunt when you talk with Bishop?”

“I
was 
more
 direct when I spoke with Joseph Bishop, for he was inclined
toward self-doubt and what you might describe as ‘whining’.”

Chang
looked at the desktop in front of him, wondering how many times Bishop had sat
in the same chair, having the same sort of conversation. “It seems wrong to
speak ill of the dead.”

“Colonel
Bishop was always grateful when people were honest with him.”

“Yes,”
Chang snorted, a grin spreading across his face. “I will strive to follow his
example. Thank you. You are correct. Playing ‘What If’ games is a waste of time
and effort.”

“You
are welcome. Would you like to play a video game? That helped Bishop to relax.”

“Maybe
later.” He stood up, pushing the chair back. “I am working in the galley 
today,
 I should get busy.”

 

 

Simms
came through the chow line, surprised to see me working behind the counter.
“Sir, you’re not scheduled to-”

Using
tongs, I picked up a piece of fried chicken. “I volunteered. The crew has been
calling me ‘Colonel Cranky’.”

She
tilted her head. “Why ‘Cranky’?”

“It’s
a submarine term. A ‘crank’ is a person assigned to work in the galley, while
they work on qualifying for their specialty, something like that. We haven’t had
fried chicken in a while, and there isn’t much for me to do, until Skippy fixes
the jump drive.” Lowering my voice, I added “Besides, the children like it.”

She
flashed a smile at me. “Good idea.”

“What
do you like?” With women in the chow line, I felt creepy asking ‘breast or
thigh’? Really, I felt creepy saying that to men also.

“It
all looks good, any two pieces.” She held out her plate for me.

Gesturing
down the line, I pointed with the tongs. “We also have baked potatoes and kale
salad.”

“
K-kale

salad?” She sputtered. “
You
 made a kale salad?”

I
shrugged. “Like you said, we have a lot of it.”

Walking
over to the big bowl of kale salad, she poked at it with the big salad fork.
“What is this other stuff in here?”

“That’s
candied pecans, walnuts, dried cranberries and Mandarin oranges,” I explained.

“Is
there,” she pushed the salad around with the big fork. “Any 
kale
 in it?”

“On
the bottom, probably.” Walking over to her, I took the other fork and tossed
the salad around. “See? Plenty of kale.”

“This
is a 
junk food
 salad, with kale on the side,” she frowned at me, her
smile wiped away. “How is this healthy?”

“Because
people are actually 
eating
 it,” I whispered. “Remember that salad you
made last week?”

She
had made kale salad with garlic and parmesan. The big bowl of kale had sat on
the end of the chow line, untouched, growing more sad, lonely and desperate
with every person who passed by. By the end of the evening, she had to admit
defeat and throw it away, before the garlic stunk up the entire galley. “I see
your point,” she grunted.

Simms
dug around the bowl, picking out mostly kale for herself, but I noticed she
also heaped a bunch of the good stuff on top. It was amazing, watching her eat
something she had called ‘junk food’. Maybe I could move her on to more
advanced forms of nutrition. 
Valkyrie’s
 executive officer had always
been a heathen Fluff Denier, but over time, I hoped that by preaching the
Gospel of Fluff, I would make her see the light, and she would enjoy the
nutritious goodness of a Fluffernutter.

But
I wasn’t holding my breath until that happened.

 

Simms
was still eating when the galley cleared out. Taking a break before I had to
clean up the kitchen, I got a cup of coffee and sat down across from her. She
was picking at the baked potato, but the rest of her food was gone.

“You
liked that salad?”

“I 
liked

the salad. I 
hate
 to admit it.”

Saluting
her with the coffee cup, I winked. “It will be our secret.” Lowering my voice,
I added “Are there any issues with the crew I should know about?”

“No.”

“No?”
That surprised me, given the situation. “How are the civilians?”

“They’re
fine,” she speared a piece of potato with a fork, and popped it in her mouth. “Really,
they are in relatively good spirits. You should visit them more often.”

“I
will.”

“The
only thorn in my side right now,” she grimaced, “is 
Karen
 being a pain
in the ass again.”

“Karen?”
With the civilians and the Commandos we had brought aboard, there were more
people than usual, but I did not remember anyone named ‘Karen’. Of course,
Simms’s real first name was ‘Tamara’ and she preferred to be called ‘Jennifer’,
so maybe it was something like that.

“Our
Ruhar guest.”

“Her?
I thought her name was ‘
Kattah
’? Kattah Robbenon.”

“It
is,” she said in a tone meaning she was being extra patient with me. “We are
calling her ‘Karen’ because she is acting like an entitled, obnoxious bitch.
She keeps insisting on talking to the manager,” she pointed to me.

“Oh,”
I laughed. “Karen, I get it. What’s her problem?”

“What
is 
not
 her problem?” Simms shrugged.

“I’ll
talk with her.”

“Sir,
I don’t know if that is a good idea.”

“She
is a pain in your ass, and you have enough to worry about. Hey, it’s a chance
for me to work on my diplomatic skills.”

“It’s
your funeral, Sir. Don’t say I didn’t warn you.”

“Warning
is noted. How about the Jeraptha cadet?”

“He
is just bored. We’re confining him to a small section of the ship, so he
doesn’t scare the civilians.”

“That
needs to stop.”

“Please
be very careful, Sir. The civilians have limited experience with aliens, and
it’s all been 
bad
.”

“I’ll
think about it. I won’t do anything without talking with you first. We need-”

Two
people came into the galley, and I stood up, draining my coffee cup. “Talk with
you later, XO.”

 

 

“Hey,
Joe,” Skippy said cheerily as his avatar shimmered to life on the desk in my
cabin, interrupting a video game I was playing. It was not the ‘
heeeeey
 Joe’ that sets off my Spidey senses, nor the quick
‘hey Joe’ he used when he knew he was in trouble. This was just a friendly
greeting.

Instantly,
I wondered what he was up to. “Hi, Skippy. What’s up?” 

“The
crew sure loved that fried chicken you made last night. Those cheddar biscuits
are all gone too, I noticed.”

“It’s
easy to please people when they’re hungry. The crew is working extra hard,” I
observed, which was true. Most of the work getting 
Valkyrie
 back to full
fighting capability was done by Skippy, but there were plenty of tasks we lowly
humans could handle. Some systems aboard the ship had been damaged by the
extended loss of power and the intense cold. Skippy had offered to have his
bots swap out components, but both Chang and Simms rightfully insisted that
humans help where we could. We needed to learn how to handle minor repairs,
even if we didn’t quite understand how some of the systems worked.

“I
like working in the galley, Skippy. I like
 working
, instead of sitting
around feeling useless all the time. Simms was smart to put me to work. It’s
helping me, a lot.” What I did not know was whether being around people,
interacting with people, and being useful was helping me process the trauma I
experienced, or maybe being busy just let me push it to the back of my mind. My
hope was the former, because failing to really deal with the issue would cause
worse trouble for me later. The good news was my sleep was not being
interrupted by disturbing dreams. If I was having dreams at all, I didn’t
remember them when I woke up, and that was fine by me. The stupid video game he
had me playing for therapy was distracting, but I was on the third level and
the rules were beginning to make sense.

He
said something about it being good to keep busy, I wasn’t really listening.
Somehow, he steered the conversation toward the subject of children, I assumed
it was something about idle hands being the Devil’s playground, blah blah blah.

“It
is 
so
 rewarding, Joe,” he was rambling on about something, while I was
trying to concentrate on playing the game.

“Uh
huh, yeah. Good for you,” I gave a neutral response that didn’t require me to
actually pay attention to what he was saying.

“Of
course, it would be a lot more rewarding if the little brats showed some
gratitude,” he complained. “But 
noooo
, it’s
always ‘poor me this’ and ‘poor me that’. They’re making it 
all
 about
themselves. Little brats. What about 
me
? Do they care about me, and my
needs? No they do not. Just because they were kidnapped and taken away from
their-”

“Wait.”
An alarm bell went off in my brain. It does that sometimes. Like when I’m
half-watching some TV show and my brain thinks there was a topless scene, my
brain goes 
BOOBS
! and lets me know there is something important I should
be looking at.

It’s
a guy thing.

Anyway,
that time, I wasn’t sure what was wrong, but I knew something was. That is
always a good bet when Skippy is involved. Pausing the game, I sat up and
leaned toward him. “What? What were you saying?”

“Ugh.
Were you not listening to 
anything
 I said?”

“I 
was

listening, because I know it is important,” I lied my ass off. “That’s why I
want to be sure I fully understand the issue.”

“Oh.
Well, 
hmmf
, I guess I owe you an apology.”

“You
certainly do,” I sniffed without feeling even mildly guilty. “Start at the
beginning, please.”

“I
try so hard, Joe. Those children need care and understanding and counseling,
and I am doing my best to provide the intense psychological therapy they need,
but those ungrateful little brats don’t-”

“Whoa!
Back up a little. 
You
 are acting as a child psychologist?”

“Certainly.
It’s because I care 
so
 much, Joe. Maybe I care too-”

My
brain was still reeling in horror at the concept of Skippy the child
psychologist. “You, 
you
 are offering counseling to a group of
traumatized children? That, that is the worst idea, 
in the history of ideas
!”

“Hey!
Just compared to some of the knuckleheaded things 
you
 have done, there
is no-”

“What
makes 
you
 qualified?”

“I
read a book about child psychology once. Ok, I didn't read the whole book, it
was 
really
 boring. I did read the synopsis, most of it, and some of the
chapters. Just the funny parts. Ugh, you have primitive monkey brains, how
difficult can it be?”

“How
diff-” I stared at him in disbelief. He was 
proud
 of himself. “That is a
job for trained professionals. You are not-”

“I 
am

a doctor, Joe,” he interrupted. “Duh.”

“You?
When did 
you
 earn a doctorate in psychology?”

“It’s
an honorary degree. Due to my extreme awesomeness, the university didn’t make
me go through all the boring stuff, like classes and learning and studying.”

“An
honorary degree. Is this from an online school you made up?”

“No,”
he sounded genuinely insulted. “It is a legit university. The finest and most
prestigious in the land, in fact.”

“Oh,

really
?” I said, putting as much sarcasm into my voice as I could.
“Finest in the land? What land is this? 
YouTubeville
?”

“If
you must know, my degree is from the College 
Of

Medical 
Sciency
 Stuff, at the University of
Skippistan.”

“Medical

Sciency
 Stuff?”

“Something
like that. I have an actual fancy diploma, but it’s in a storage unit in
Wyoming.”

“Why
do you have a storage unit in Wyoming?”

“The
rent is cheap, Joe. They have a lot of land out there, 
duh
. Man,
sometimes I wonder about your-”

“Can
we, can we get back to this university? It’s in 
Skippistan
? What,” I
laughed. “You have your own country now?”

“Sure.”

Holy
shit. It hit me right then. He was 
serious
. “You formed a freakin’ 
country
?”

“Yes.”

“Can
I get a
 little
 more info about that, please? How did you do this?”

“Mostly
it was a bunch of forms I found online. It’s amazing what you can do with
Photoshop. Plus I hired a law firm in Lichtenstein, they were happy to have my
business. Especially,” he lowered his voice, “after I made that 
legal thing

go away, if you know what I mean.”

“Ok,”
I breathed a sigh of relief. That was one less thing for UNEF and the United
States Army to yell at me about. “So, it’s just on paper. It’s not a real country.”

“It

is
 a real country. Jeez, I sure pay enough dues for voting rights in the
United Nations.”

“The,
the UN 
recognized
 Skippistan?”

“They
sure did.”

“
How
?”

“Bribes,
Joe, 
duh
. The bureaucrats at the UN don’t care what a country does, as
long as you keep the money flowing. Actually, 
hee
 
hee
,” he chuckled, pleased with himself. “I got a 
bargain,
 the bribes didn’t cost nearly as much as I
expected. It turns out, my ambassador to the UN had compromising photos of
certain important people with farm animals, and-”

“Please
tell me you did not do that.”

“Why?
Oh, I know what you are concerned about. Don’t worry, Joe, I obscured the faces
of the farm animals in the photos, nobody will know who they are.”

I
pounded my forehead on the desk so hard, it left a red mark. “You have an 
ambassador
?
A real, live actual person?”

“Of
course.”

“This
person, he or she is a citizen of Skippistan? An employee of yours?”

“He’s
more of an independent contractor, Joe. He gets a small salary, but mostly he
enjoys the 
substantial
 tax benefits of dual citizenship in Skippistan.
He runs my embassy in Miami.”

“You
have an embassy? Why 
Miami
?”

“Because
that’s where he lives. I saw his ad on a billboard. You know, if you have an
accident, call 1-800-Morrie-Cares, or some bullshit like that.”

“Morrie?”

“Morrie
Slater. He’s an ambulance-chasing lawyer. Anyway, Morrie suggested we set up my
embassy in a fourth-floor condo overlooking South Beach. That way, 
hee
 
hee
, Morrie can check out the
topless babes on the beach, while Mrs. Morrie thinks he’s at the office.”

“I
don’t believe this.”

“What

I 
don’t believe are some of the crazy items on Morrie’s expense account.
Who needs a tub of Vaseline and three ferrets?”

“Oh,
my G-”

“Hey,
if he built a 
slip’n’slide
 for those ferrets, 
I

am not paying to clean the rugs.”

That
was something my brain warned me not to think too much about, so I didn’t. “Is
this, is this a 
real
 country? Where is it?”

“Uh,
well, originally I planned for it to be somewhere in eastern Europe, so I could
give myself a title like Grand Duke-a-
rino
. That way,
I would outrank Count 
Chocula
, you know? But the EU
would ask too many questions, and I figured, hey, it’s called Skippi
stan
,
so it must be in central Asia.”

“So,
where is this place?”

“It’s
between Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan, north of Tajikistan. I think. Close enough.
Technically, it is an independent enclave within Kyrgyzstan.”

Whether
those three countries existed was something I would have to Google. In the back
of my brain was a vague memory of a movie from that part of the world, 
Borik
, 
Borash
, Borek something
like that? That guy in the movie was fake, maybe those countries were too? “You
own actual land there, or is Skippistan just something like a post office box?”

“I
own actual land,” he sniffed, offended by the question. “Forty-six hectares of
beautiful rolling hillsides. Currently, it is mostly populated by sheep and
goats, but we do have a yak! Before we left Earth the last time, I was
negotiating to buy an emu, but the cost of shipping is outrageous.”

“An,
an emu? Why would you 
want a-”

“Because
it’s 
cool
, duh. How many people do 
you

know who have an emu? 
Zero,
 

right
? That’s what I thought.”

“Sheep,
goats and a yak, huh? Sounds, uh, like a paradise.”

“To
the wealthy people who purchase citizenship in the glorious People’s Republic
of Skippistan, it is paradise, Joe. The tax benefits can offset the cost of
citizenship in the first year!”

“
Purchase
?
You are selling citizenship? Damn it, is this another scam like your cult?”

“It
is 
not
 a scam, and I am hurt that you would imply such an ugly thing.
Skippistan is a real country, according to the United Nations. Hey, do you want
to hear our bodacious national anthem?”

Music
blared out of the speakers in the ceiling before I could say ‘no’. What I
expected was something like opera, or showtunes. Instead, what I heard made me jam
fingers in my ears. It was some guy screaming, with the background music made
by poorly-tuned guitars and possibly a car crash. “What 
is
 that?”

“Swedish
death metal, Joe,” he shouted to be heard over the noise. “I didn’t want to
have some lame anthem like most countries.”

“Your
national anthem is sung in 
Swedish
?”

“No,
that’s Klingon, of course.”

It
didn’t sound like Klingon to me, but I’m not an expert.

When
the anthem finished, and my ears stopped ringing, I just sat for a while, head
in my hands, wondering how much trouble he had gotten me into. “Tell me,
please,” I asked without looking up at his avatar. “When did you set up this
country?”

“Before
we left Earth the last time, of course. Just after you made me pay back the
people I ripped off. I mean, to reimburse the very generous and
 totally

voluntary donations from the faithful followers of His Holiness 
Skippiasyermuni
. I needed a legit way to raise funds,
remember? Hey! If this gets me in trouble, then it is all 
your 
fault.”

“The
UN, they don’t know the leader of this country is 
you
, do they?”

“Of
course not. I’m not 
stupid
, Joe. I used my Magnus 
Skippton

persona to set it up. He relocated from the Cayman Islands. Morrie did all the
paperwork for me.”

“And
this is a real, legit country, according to the UN?”

“According
to the outrageous dues I pay to the UN, absolutely.”

“Huh.”

“What?”

“This,
might actually be a good thing.”

“Well,

duh
, it’s a good thing. I am helping oppressed millionaires and billionaires
all around the world to hide their wealth- I mean, to manage their-”

“Not
that. It’s a good thing because, you are not 
my
 problem anymore.”

“Um,
what?”

“You
are a sovereign nation. A real one, not like those cosplaying idiots who live
in a bunker in Idaho. The US Army can’t make you my responsibility.”

“If
you say so, Joe.”

“Can
we get back to the subject? We should be helping the children. And the adults.”

“I 
am

helping them. For sure, they are not shy about making me the focus of their anger.
Damn, some of them 
really
 hate me.”

“Gosh,
I wonder w-”

“Don’t
be a smartass, Joe.”

“How
about this? I will talk with the 
rescuees
, or get
Adams or someone to talk with them. If they want to continue counseling with
you, we will give it a shot. Deal?”

“Deal.
You know I am all about helping people.”

“Yes,
that’s what everyone says about you.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN

 

The

Flying Dutchman
 floated in deep space, one light-minute from the next
emergence point of the Elder wormhole. Going through that wormhole would begin
the journey back toward Earth, and abandon hope of ever finding 
Valkyrie
.
According to the navigation records that Nagatha had access to, the ancient
wormhole would be open for eleven minutes, thirty-seven seconds. In practice,
that meant the ship had a window of six minutes and nineteen seconds to
transition through the stable rip in spacetime, considering the time needed for
the event horizon to stabilize, plus the need to fly through normal space after
jumping in outside the wormhole’s enforced safety zone.

All
that data was programmed in the autopilot, plus multiple options for escaping
if an enemy ship was detected. That wormhole has been selected because it saw
only moderate traffic, mostly by the Bosphuraq. With the birds still feeling
the wrath of their patrons, their ships were not flying far from their home
bases.

Samantha
Reed resisted the urge to scratch her itchy arm. She couldn’t reach the itch
anyway, with her forearm in a lightweight but solid casing. Supposedly the
miracle medical technology of the Maxolhx device prevented her skin from
itching, and Nagatha assured her the cast was working properly. What the hell
did a disembodied AI know about an itch that was distracting at best,
infuriating at worst? Sometimes, Sami felt like cutting the damned casing open
to get blessed relief, except Nagatha had warned that would seriously set back
the healing of the broken bones. She would be stuck in an endless loop of itching,
breaking and applying a new casing. That was a recipe for-

Her
console lit up. “Wormhole is open,” she reported a split-second before anyone
in the CIC, a point of pride for her. Technically, the wormhole has opened a
minute before, they were just seeing the photons now. “Authorizing autopilot,
counting down from forty seconds from, 
now
,” she pressed a button on the
console. Unless she interrupted the process, the ship’s navigation system would
jump the 
Dutchman
 at a precise position in front of the wormhole. The
only reason she would cancel the programmed jump is if an enemy ship was
detected. In that case, she would immediately activate jump option Bravo
without needing further orders from Chang.

“Forty
seconds,” Chang acknowledged, unseen from his command chair behind her. She
preferred the arrangement of 
Valkyrie’s
 bridge, where the captain sat
off to the side. It was awkward to twist in her couch to look at the captain.

Speaking
of endless loops, she thought with an inner groan, that is exactly what her
life would be for many months while the 
Dutchman
 jumped, recharged and
jumped yet again. All the way to Earth. In the military, she had many times
experienced Groundhog Day, where she got up in the morning and did the 
same

shit as the previous day. The idea of getting stuck in a loop like that was-

She
jerked in her seat.

The
timer on the console read seven seconds.

Six.

Five.

On
her own initiative, she canceled the jump.

“
Pilot
?”
Chang asked, alarmed.

“Captain
Reed,” Nagatha added. “Why did you cancel the jump? I am not detecting any
other ships in the area, and-”

“Chen,
take over,” Reed told her copilot, and unstrapped so she could see Chang
without straining her neck. “Colonel, you weren’t with us on the Renegade
mission.”

“I
am aware of that fact, 
Captain
,” Chang allowed his annoyance to creep
into his voice. He did not like being reminded that he had missed that action.
The Pirates who had stolen the ship, and flown off to conduct that
astonishingly complex and wildly successful mission, never acted like they were
better than those left behind, but there was sometimes an unspoken smugness
about it. That the woman universally referred to as Emily Freakin’ Perkins had
spoiled the mission made no difference in how the Pirates felt about their
accomplishments. “I was unavoidably detained.”

“Yes,
Sir. I meant, there was an incident you might not be familiar with.”

“I
did read the mission reports,” Chang assured her, his tone more neutral. He needed
to give her some slack, to trust his chief pilot.

“Yes.
But I 
lived
 it. Nagatha too.”

“I
did?” The AI asked. “Ooh, which incident?”

“When
we jumped the DeLorean out of Detroit,” Reed explained, arching an eyebrow.

Chang
nodded, and gestured for her to continue.

“Sir,
that was one seriously 
fucked-up
 jump. We barely survived. Everyone
thought we had died, including Skippy. My point is, from our point of view in
the DeLorean, everything was fine. Except when we emerged, we had gone forward
in 
time
.”

“Yes,
and-” Chang’s mouth hung open. “Oh, no!”

“Yeah,”
she shook her head ruefully. “Sir, we know that wormholes are created by
warping spacetime. We think of using wormholes to move in space, but we don’t
think of how they affect time. What if 
Valkyrie
 did jump, and instead of
getting trapped in the jump, they got hung up in a time loop for a while? They
could have emerged after we left.”

“Or
they could emerge tomorrow,” Chang leaned forward excitedly. “Nagatha, program
a jump to take us back to 
Valkyrie’s
 target jump coordinates.”

“No
need, Sir,” Sami reported with a grin, spinning around on the couch and
strapping in. “I have kept jump option Hotel updated as we flew.”

“Mm,”
Chang grunted. “Any reason that you chose the designation ‘Hotel’?”

“
Hope

also starts with an ‘H’,” she explained.

“Engage
when ready.”

 

 

There
was no sign of 
Valkyrie
 when the 
Dutchman
 returned to the target
coordinates, nor any sign the battlecruiser had ever been there. “We wait,”
Chang declared.

“For
how long, Colonel?” Nagatha inquired.

“I
am not an expert in hyperspatial physics. How long do 
you
 think we
should wait?”

“Oh
dear. I am not sure how to answer that.”

“Have
you been able to determine how long 
Valkyrie
 could have been flung
forward in time?”

“Colonel
Chang, unfortunately, no. There is not enough data for me to even begin to
guess at the time shift, if there 
was
 a time shift. Please keep in mind
that Captain Reed’s theory is just that: a theory. A hunch, to be accurate.”

“We
wait,” he insisted. “Thirty days, if necessary.”

“May
I ask,” Reed craned her neck to look backward. “Why thirty days?”

“It
is a nice round number,” Chang shrugged. “If we are wrong about a time shift, and
we stay here too long, we cannot reach Earth before the enemy does.”

“Yes,
Sir,” Reed turned back to her console. “I suggest we move away. If their jump
was shifted in time, we don’t know how accurate it was in 
space
 either.”

“Do
it.”

 

 

While
we waited for Skippy to fix 
Valkyrie’s

jump drive, 
again
, I decided to tackle a problem that I had been
avoiding. Usually, as the ship’s executive officer, Simms handled routine
personnel issues, and I wasn’t going to change that.

This
matter was not routine.

Outside
the door to the cabin suite, I paused to check my uniform, tugging here and
there to straighten out wrinkles. Running a hand over the awful, self-induced crewcut
that was at least growing in evenly, I took a deep breath. “Skippy, is our
guest waiting to stab me with a sharpened toothbrush?”

“No,
Joe,” he laughed. “She has been sitting on the couch for the past ten minutes.
Perched on the edge of the couch, actually. Reading her biometrics, she is
quite anxious.”

“Anxious?
Or hostile?” Normally, I would not ask Skippy to snoop on people in their
cabins, but this was a special case.

Because
this was Karen.

“She
is anxious, Joe.”

“OK,”
I tapped my zPhone to alert her that I was at the door. There wasn’t a panel
near the door, because it was a temporary addition to the ship. For the
convenience and sanity of our lone Ruhar guest, we had blocked off the end of a
passageway, so she had access to two cabins. One cabin contained a treadmill
and other exercise and recreation equipment, the other was living quarters.
Simms had pointed out to our guest that having two cabins was a great luxury,
aboard a ship crammed full of civilians, where some cabins were assigned four
people. Kattah Robbenon had not been appreciative to Simms, though when I spoke
to her that morning, she had sounded more weary than angry.

The
door slid open, I stepped into the passageway between cabins, and Skippy slid
the door closed behind me. “Klasta Robbenon,” I used her rank and last name,
giving her a Ruhar-style salute, with two fingers to my cheek.

She
had stood up from the couch on my signal and was standing in front of me. She
returned the salute, either automatically or out of courtesy. “Colonel Bishop.
Thank you for agreeing to speak with me. Finally.” Her cheeks reddened under
the fine fur. “Sorry. I did not mean to- It has been difficult.”

“I
can’t imagine what it was like for you, aboard a ship with no gravity, no
lights, no heat.”

“No
hot 
water
,” she sighed. “That was the worst part. Have you ever tried to
keep yourself clean, using cold water and wet towels?”

“Um,
too many times, unfortunately,” I flashed a chagrinned smile. “Our ships have
lost power and gravity, uh, I can’t remember how often.”

She
invited me into her living quarters. Before following her, I glanced at her
mini gymnasium, noting that she had kept the place neat and spotlessly clean.
Sitting at the table in her rather spacious cabin, we exchanged pleasantries
until the conversation trailed off. “Klasta, I am very sorry that it was
necessary to bring you aboard against your will. It 
was
 necessary. You
have been informed of our operation to rescue humans being held by the Kristang?”
I avoided using the word ‘kidnapped’, since that is what we had done to her.

“Yes.”
She looked down at the table. “If I were in your position, I might have done
the same.” Then she looked up, accusingly, her eyes fiery. “But I do not have a
Maxolhx battlecruiser. Surely you could have rescued your people without needing
a handful of human Commandos!”

“Not
without exposing our secret,” I replied quietly. Before I decided to meet with
her, I told myself that no matter how angry she was with me, I would remain
calm. She was scared, lonely and separated from everyone she knew. If she
wanted someone to yell at, better her target was me than my crew. “Please
understand, our homeworld is facing destruction by the Maxolhx, and there is
nothing we can do to stop them. The longer our secret remains undiscovered, the
more time we have to bring people from our homeworld, to a safe haven. My
species is facing total extinction.”

She
shook her head sadly, not in anger. “Colonel, there is no place in this galaxy
that is safe from the Maxolhx. To believe otherwise is to give your people
false hope.”

Though
our plan was to return Robbenon to her own people, after the Maxolhx reached
Earth and our secret no longer mattered, she was not going to be told about the
Beta site. She also did not need to know that Skippy could screw with Elder
wormholes. “It will be difficult, and it may only be temporary,” I said with an
exaggerated shrug.

“My
people have faced war for,” she sighed. “Longer than my people can remember. 
But,
 we have not faced 
extinction
 since the
beginning. You have my sympathy, for whatever that is worth.”

“Thank
you. I can promise you that you will not be harmed, and as soon as it is possible
to release you, we will. Is there anything I can do to make you more
comfortable?”

“I
don’t want to be 
comfortable
,” she touched the rank insignia on her
uniform top. “What I want is to be useful. Colonel, I need something to do. I
am going crazy in here.”

“Back
home, you have a husband, and a child?”

“Yes,”
her eyes narrowed. “How do you know that?”

“Your
personnel records were in your phone when you came aboard.”

“Those
records are 
encrypted
,” her jaw clenched and a muscle in her cheek
twitched.

Waving
my hand to encompass the cabin, I explained, “We hacked into a Maxolhx computer
to capture this ship.”

“True,”
her shoulder sagged.

“I
did not mention your family as a threat, or a boast. Your son is, four years old?”

“He
will be five soon,” her eyes shone, welling with tears.

Standing
up, I gestured toward the door. “Come with me, please.”

 

Outside
the door to the empty cargo bay we had set aside as a recreation area for the
civilians, we heard the voices of children and a few adults. They were mostly
talking quietly, interrupted by squeals and shouts of someone playing a game.

“Why
are we here?” Robbenon asked, standing behind me as if afraid.

“The
only aliens these people have seen are Kristang. They should know that not all
other species are cruel and want to kill us. Could you show them that your
people are not like the Kristang?”

“I
have never met human children,” she said, which was not really an answer.

“Are
you willing to try, please? If you want to do something useful, this is an
opportunity.”

“I,”
she took a shuddering breath, closing her eyes. “Will try. What if they are
afraid of me?”

“They
probably will be, at first. You will need to be patient.”

The
ghost of a smile cracked her stern face. “I have a very energetic little boy at
home. Patience is a virtue I have had to learn.” She squared her shoulders.
“Ready.”

“Good.
Wait here in the passageway, I will call you.” I strode confidently into the
rec bay, waving a friendly hand to the small group of people gathered there.
Two adults and eight children. Two boys who I guessed were around ten years old
were playing badminton, or trying to. Skippy had fabricated sort of Nerf shuttlecocks
that didn’t fly fast or far, to keep the game slow and gentle. The boys were both
on the same side of the net, trying to keep the bird in the air for as long as
possible. They looked happy.

The
others were sitting on the padded section of the floor, talking. Play gear was
scattered around, despite the frequent admonishments from our crew to put equipment
away when not in use.

“Good
afternoon,” I announced myself quietly. “Why, hello there, Aeysha.”

She
jumped up and ran over to me happily, thumping against my legs, her head
battering my stomach. “
Oof
. Wow,” I held her
shoulders and pushed her back to get a better look at her. “How much have you
grown since last week?”

Bashfully,
she looked at the floor, but I saw her glancing up at me with one eye. “Gunny
Adams says I have gained three pounds.”

“That
is good!” Crouching down so we were at eye-level, I asked “Would you like to
meet a friend of mine? Her name is Kattah.”

“Kattah?”
Aeysha looked at me quizzically. “What kind of name is that?”

“It
is a Ruhar name. She is an alien. A 
nice
 alien,” I added hastily as the
girl’s eyes bulged. “She is not like the Kristang at all. Her people are
enemies of the Kristang. The Ruhar 
hate
 the Kristang.”

“I
hate them too,” Aeysha whispered, already looking past me toward the doorway.

Raising
my voice, I called out “Klasta Robbenon?”

The
Ruhar officer stepped slowly into view, hugging the door frame, waving a hand.

Aeysha
clutched my arm, whispering “She looks like a 
bunny
, with short ears.”

“We
call them hamsters,” I whispered back with a wink. “But don’t tell her that,
it’s not polite. Would you like to meet her?”

“Will
you come with me?” She asked.

I
stood up. “Hold my hand?”

 

Introducing
Robbenon to a small group was a good idea it allowed her to interact with them
in a controlled setting, though that didn’t last long. Two children ran out of
the rec bay, and soon the rumor spread like wildfire. There was an 
alien

aboard the ship! We had to control access to the bay, letting small groups of
people in at a time. Robbenon was a true professional, or maybe she was just a
homesick mother, because I could not have asked her to be nicer. She remained
there for hours, past the start of the evening meal, answering questions,
letting children touch her and feel her soft fur. By that time, I had left supervision
to Captain Frey, and she declared an end to the excitement when she saw the
Ruhar was exhausted. All in all, introducing Robbenon to the civilians was a
success, the civilians were talking about it all the next morning.

Until
we introduced them to our Jeraptha guest.

That
 was real excitement.

 

 

“Are
you 
sure
?” I pressed Skippy for a solid answer. He had declared the jump
drive was fixed and fully operational, so I called him to discuss the issue
with me and Simms.

“Yes.
As much as I can be, without actually using the damned thing. So, really I
guess the answer is ‘shmaybe’?”

“Can
you give me a confidence level on that ‘shmaybe’?”

“Oh,
it is a gold-plated shmaybe, Joe. Hundred percent. 
Mmm
,
more like eighty-twenty, to be truthful. But a 
solid
 eighty percent.
Maybe seventy-five. Jeez, now you’ve got 
me
 worried.”

Skippy
had fixed the jump drive, a job that had taken seven hours longer than his
estimate. It wasn’t fully repaired, just enough for the ship to perform a
half-dozen jumps. What I wanted was to jump 
now
, without the drive
exploding, or causing further damage to the delicate unit. We had been away
from the 
Flying Dutchman
 for nine days, Chang had to be worried sick
about us.

“We
need to perform a test jump, right? Answer this: does it make any difference
whether we jump a short distance, or all the way back?”

“Um,
back to where?” He asked.

“To
the spot we jumped away from. The only place Chang could find us. I’m hoping he
is there, waiting for us.”

“That
jump is only twenty-nine 
lightdays
. It would be a
good test, no 
more risky
 than jumping a few light-minutes.”

“Good.”
Finally, I had gotten an answer from Skippy. “Simms, do you have any
objections?”

“No,”
my XO shook her head. “I just want to get 
on
 with it.”

“We
all do,” I agreed.

“Jump
is programmed into the nav system,” Skippy said with only a touch of his usual
smugness.

“Pilot,”
I tried to project authority in my voice. “Jump option Delta. Engage.”

 

“Damn
it,” I smacked the armrest of my chair, which fortunately had the controls
locked so a doofus like me didn’t accidently launch missiles. “Where the hell 
are
 they?”

“Patience,
Sir,” Simms counselled. “Chang probably positioned his ship a few light-seconds
away for safety.”

“Yeah.”
That made sense to me, except 
Valkyrie
 had returned three minutes ago,
and there was no signal from the 
Dutchman
. “Skippy, ping the buoy we
left behind.”

“Uh,
bad news, Joe. I did that already. It’s not responding. I am afraid to say
this, but the buoy might have been damaged by the distortion when we jumped out
of here.”

“Shit.
Warm up the active sensors and ping for the damned thing.”

Two
minutes later, Skippy sighed. “I’m sorry, Joe. There is no sign of the buoy.
The extreme distortion of our jump may have destroyed it.”

“Shit!
Without that buoy, Chang has no way to know where we went. Is there any sign
the 
Dutchman
 was here?”

“No,”
Skippy replied. “I am detecting only very faint jump resonance signatures, too
degraded to be recent. Too faint to tell what type of ship was here.”

“Ok.
No sense wasting time here. Jump us to the planned rendezvous point, Chang
would have gone there.”

 

Except
if Chang had brought his ship there, it was long gone. Skippy detected faint
resonances from a starship having been in the area more than a week ago. “Oh,
this is not good,” I rested my head in my hands. Chang could not have dropped
off a buoy, because the 
Dutchman
 wasn’t equipped with any. We only had
five of the devices left, all aboard 
Valkyrie
. The assumption had been
that as the support ship, the 
Dutchman
 would remain in one place, while our
battlecruiser flew to unpredictable places and took the risks. It had been my
assumption, and 
clearly
 I was wrong. Lesson learned:
get Skippy to fabricate buoys. After he finished fabricating all the other 
crap
 we needed to keep our two ships flying.

Our

one
 ship flying.

“Simms,”
I turned to my executive officer. “What do you think? How do we find the 
Dutchman
?”

“Sir,”
her expression was pained. “We 
don’t
. They could be anywhere.” She did
not say what we both feared; that the 
Dutchman
 had not returned because
that ship had been unable to return. “All I can think of is, we should try
jumping back to Rikers, see if Chang went there after he didn’t find us here.”

I
rubbed the crewcut stubble on my head. The hair had grown out enough for me to
stop wearing a baseball cap all the time. “That is a longshot,” I muttered half
to myself. “If we don’t find them there,” I let my voice trail off.

“What
then, Sir?” She asked in a whisper, leaning toward me.

“I
don’t know. You’re right. They could be anywhere. We’ll 
never
 find them.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN

 

Two
days after returning to 
Valkyrie’s
 target jump coordinates, Reed was
daydreaming in the pilot couch, alone near the end of a duty shift. She was
looking forward to a late lunch, and hitting the gym. The selection of meals in
the galley was not the-

Her
console lit up. “They’re here!” She pressed a button to alert the entire crew,
all 
dozen
 of them. “
Valkyrie
 is here!”

 

Chang
ran onto the bridge moments later, blinking away sleep. He had been dozing in
his office chair, and his neck moved awkwardly, stiff from the awkward angle.
Before he could ask questions, Reed pointed to the main display. “There doesn’t
appear to be any external damage. They may have been off in time, but they
emerged within seven 
meters
 of the target coordinates. Whatever is 
dorked
 up with their drive, it hasn’t affected accuracy.”

Chang
grinned, sitting in the chair and jabbing a thumb on the transmit button. “
Valkyrie
,
you are late to the party. That was a very impressive time shift.”

The
face of Bishop came on the display, still wearing a baseball cap but looking
much healthier. “Hi, Kong. Uh, what time shift?”

Chang’s
grin grew wider. “It felt like no time at all to you, hmm? You have been gone
for nine days, trapped inside your jump wormhole.”

“Oh,
uh,” Bishop blushed. “No. Good guess, 
but,
 we just
jumped in six 
lightdays
 off target. The jump blew the
drive, it has taken this long for Skippy to get it 
unfucked
.”

Chang
sat back in the chair, deflated, sharing a ‘WTF’ look with Reed. “No time
shift?”

“No,
sorry,” Bishop shrugged. “That would have been way cooler than what actually
happened to us.”

“Sir?”
Reed asked. “What 
did
 happen?”

Bishop
shook his head. “It is a 
long
 
st
-”

“What
happened?” Skippy shouted. “Pure, weapons-grade 
awesomeness
 is what
happened! I am 
back
, baby! Large and in charge!”

Chang
covered his eyes with a hand. “And humble as always, I see.”

“Kong,”
Bishop clapped his hands. “I can’t tell you how freakin’ happy we are to see
you! How did you know to come here? The buoy must have been 
destroyed,

we couldn’t find any trace of it.”

“The
buoy was 
damaged
,” Chang explained. “We took it aboard for Nagatha to
extract the jump coordinates.”

“Wow.
You have been waiting here for nine days?”

“Not
here. 
That
 is a long story.”

“Come
aboard 
Valkyrie
,” Bishop waved. “You can tell me over a glass of
scotch.”

“I
do not understand.” Chang was puzzled. “If you thought we had not found the
buoy, you had no reason to think we came 
here
. Why did you-”

Bishop
shrugged. “It was worth a shot. I figure, after all the bullshit we’ve been
through recently, the Universe 
owes
 us.”

 

 

It
was a big surprise to Chang when 
Valkyrie
 appeared out of nowhere, and
that we had not been lost in time. He seemed a bit disappointed about that and
truthfully, so was I. That would have been a much better story to tell someday.

Another
big surprise was when I told Nagatha about her love child. Except, I felt bad
that she was horribly embarrassed about the whole thing, until she established
a full set of communication protocols with Bilby, and talked with him. Her opinion
was that Bilby had a lot of growing to do, before he would be ready to take
over the full range of ship operations. She also was very proud of him, while
Skippy was still just annoyed.

The
crew thought Bilby was great when he revealed himself. Mostly, they liked that
he was a constant source of pain and suffering for Skippy.

I
kind of liked that too.

 

 

The
civilians remained aboard 
Valkyrie
, I didn’t intend to take the ship
into action, and they probably felt like ping-pong balls from bouncing between
our ships. Some of the crew transferred from one ship to another, bringing
aboard new faces, including some people I had not seen since I returned from Rikers.
That group included part of the STAR team, until I met them when I walked into
the gym. A group of people were looking surprised to see me, and had guilty looks
on their faces and were avoiding my eyes. “Uh,” I looked at Captain Frey, who
was surrounded by people recently transferred from the 
Dutchman
. “What’s
going on?”

“Skippy,”
she gritted her teeth. “You were supposed to warn us if the Colonel was coming
here.”

“Oops!
My fault,” Skippy chuckled. “I am revising the control procedures for internal 
sensors,
 it must have temporarily blinded me. Gosh, I am 
terribly

sorry about that.”

“
Riiiight
,” I ignored Skippy. “Captain Frey, what is going
on, if I am allowed to know?”

“Sir,”
her shoulders slumped. “We want to get something as a ‘Welcome Back’ gift for
you, now that both ships are together and functional again. Something nice.”

“Oh,”
I was taken aback. “That is, very nice. Thank you.”

“
Someone
,”
she glared at the group shuffling their feet awkwardly on the other side of the
aerobics floor. “Suggested candlesticks, because 
somebody
 is not putting
any effort into this.”

“Well,
uh, those are always nice.”

“They
are 
lame
, Sir. Candlesticks are what you get, when you can’t think of
anything else. Can you give us a hint?”

“Jeez,
Captain, I don’t-”

“That’s
easy,” Skippy snickered. “Joe could use a box of condoms.”

“Cond-”
Frey’s eyes opened wide. It could see the wheels turning in her head. Happy for
me that I might need those items, and wondering who I was using them with.

“Skippy,”
I groaned. “I do 
not
 need any-”

“Come
on, Joe. 
Try
 to be a responsible adult. Your shower is not using
protection, you should at least-”

“Oh,
shit.”

“Seriously,
I’m surprised your shower isn’t 
pregnant
 by now.”

Let’s
just say that I did not get to use the gym that day.

Also,
the crew later presented me with a very nice coffee mug with a commemorative
‘Escape from Rikers’ logo on it, like a movie poster.

None
of the crew would look me in the eye when they gave me that mug.

I
hate that little beer can.

 

 

Before
Chang came aboard 
Valkyrie
 for a glass of scotch to officially celebrate
our reunion, we followed Simms’s suggestion to jump both ships someplace far
away. For all we knew, Thuranin ships were buzzing around like angry hornets.
The danger was, there were possibly more than just Thuranin ships near Rikers.
That lone frigate had seen 
Valkyrie
, and knew we were the feared ghost
ship. If the Thuranin wanted to suck up to their patrons, they would run to
tell the Maxolhx about us, so we needed to get the hell out of there. After a
jump, Chang came aboard, and some of the crew transferred back to the good old 
Flying
Dutchman
. We did enjoy a glass of nice single-malt scotch while each of us
related what happened while we were separated. We also expressed gratitude that
our starships were commanded by army officers, instead of following navy
regulations. Drinking any sort of alcohol would have been frowned upon aboard a
navy ship.

After
we swapped war stories, I had a decision to make. “Kong,” I rolled the heavy
glass around in my hand, a sure giveaway that I was contemplating a difficult
subject. “While Skippy was restoring the drive, I met the people we rescued
from Rikers.”

Ah.”
He understood, or I thought he did. He lifted his chin in a gesture for me to
continue.

“Some
of the adults and I, we uh, had a group therapy session. They told me what
happened to them, how they survived. How so many did 
not
. How the adults
sacrificed themselves to provide for the children.” If my hand closed any more
tightly around the glass, I could have broken it. “What those sadistic lizard
fuckers did to them.”

“Joe.”
He set down his glass. “I know. You heard about the arena?”

“Yeah.”
After the Kristang had determined their human captives had no immediate
usefulness, and before the Thuranin offered to purchase them, the clan leaders
had amused themselves and their restless population by forcing humans to fight
to the death. They had brought in adults to fight against their warriors, then
against well-armed lizard children, then against beasts. The worst part, for
the people in the two camps, was that for better sport, the Kristang selected
the 
most healthy
 of the adults. That left the ill and
injured to grow food and care for the children as best they could.

And
when a human child reached their teen years, they also could be selected for
the arena.

“You
want to hit them, hard,” Chang asked.

“No.”
I gulped the remainder of the scotch. “I want you to talk me out of it.”

Clearly,
that was not what Kong expected to hear. “If you’re asking me to do that, you
already have.”

“I
don’t 
want
 to be talked out if it,” my clenched fists thumped the table.
“I know it’s not the smart move, OK? Going back to Rikers, with a Thuranin
battlegroup and maybe Maxolhx ships buzzing around like angry hornets, it’s too
risky, right? It’s just, 
damn
 it. How much shit do we have to take? When
does it stop?”

“You
want vengeance,” he nodded.

“I
want those lizards to 
pay
.”

“
Mmm
.” He looked at the table for a moment. Looking at me he

asked
 “Are you a Lord of the Rings fan?”

“Uh,
what? I saw the movies when I was a kid, and that TV show. Read the books when
I was older, like in high school. Why?”

“Forgive
me if I get some of the story wrong. There was a dwarf named 
Thrain
? I think that’s right. He heard the orcs killed a
dwarf king, can’t remember his name. The orcs didn’t just kill this king, they
mutilated his body and fed it to crows. 
Thrain
 thought
about it for a week, then announced ‘This cannot be borne’. He committed his
people to a long and horrific war. In the end, I think he killed the orcs who mutilated
the king. Joe, nothing changed. The orcs had killed dwarves before the war, and
they kept doing it after the war. A lot of dwarves died to avenge the king.”

“Yeah.”
I understood the point he was making. “The king who was already dead. 
Thrain
 got a lot of dwarves killed for nothing.”

“Not
for 
nothing
. But, not for a good reason, either. They didn’t change
anything.”

“Shit.
Kong, sometimes I really hate this fucking job.”

“Joe,
I don’t know what the US Army is like, but in the Chinese Army,” he shook his
head ruefully. “If it feels good, you’re probably doing it wrong.”

“All
right. Thank you. Someday, though.”

He
reached for the bottle and poured a dram into both of our glasses, then held
his up to make a toast. “Someday.”

We
clinked glasses and drank. “Someday,” I said it like swearing an oath.

Because
it was.

 

With
everyone settled in aboard both ships, we began jumping toward the closest
Elder wormhole, intending to get far away from the area before the Maxolhx
arrived in force. It surprised me that Chang not only offered to surrender overall
command to me, he insisted. I wasn’t sure that I was ready. Skippy had told me
that, while I needed to continue therapy, my brain’s executive functions were
back to normal. The way he said it implied he was grading me on a curve, and
that his expectations of my decision-making abilities were lower than a snake’s
belly, but that was nothing new.

“Skippy,”
I asked while I was in my cabin, so we could talk privately. We could have
talked in confidence with my office door closed, but I didn’t like doing that,
as it sent the wrong signal to the crew. “You are sure I am ready? Back to
normal?”

“Yes.”

“Can
I get a little more detail about that? Not that long ago, you said I had
serious brain damage. Now I am fully recovered?”

“Um,
your condition was never particularly serious, Joe.”

“What?
You told me-” 

“I 
told

you what you needed to hear, so you would take your therapy seriously.”

“You

lied
 to me?”

“For
the best of reasons, yes. I am not apologizing for that. Joe, if you had not
allowed me to treat you with drug therapy, and worked hard on your therapy, your
condition would not have improved. It would have gotten 
worse
. Instead,
because I knew you would not take it seriously unless I exaggerated the effects,
you are fully recovered. According to your brain scan, anyway. How do you 
feel
?”

“I
feel like throwing you out an airlock.”

“I
was asking a serious question, dumdum.”

“OK.”
I clenched my fists to burn off some of the anger I had bottled up inside. “I
feel fine. Good. Normal. Better than usual.”

“Excellent.”

“Do
not lie to me like that again,” I shook a finger at him.

“No.”

“No?
Like, no you won’t do that again?”

“No.
I meant ‘no’ I am not promising to never lie to you again. Joe, I 
know

you. You’re a soldier, so you tend to try toughing out situations when you
should seek help. You are a guy, so you avoid going to a doctor unless you
absolutely have to. And, deep inside, you are a congenital knucklehead.
Sometimes, being your friend means protecting you from yourself. If you want an
apology from me about this, you will be waiting a 
long
 time.”

“Shit.”
Damn it, I knew he was right. “Can you promise not to lie to me about one thing,
right now? Am I really fully recovered?”

“Close
enough,” he shrugged. “You burned out neurons that can’t be repaired. All I can
say is, your brain has successfully rewired itself, and your results on
cognitive tests are slightly 
better
 than before the incident.

“OK.
I should keep playing these brain games?” I pointed to my laptop, which had the
cognitive therapy games he made for me.

“It
couldn’t hurt, Joe. If you’re going to waste time, you might as well do
something that challenges your mind, instead of playing Super Mario Cart 25
again.”

“OK.”
That was no great loss, because I sucked at Mario Cart.

 

So,
I took command again, which mostly meant Chang handled the 
Dutchman
, Simms
did majority of the work aboard 
Valkyrie
, and I played video games.

But
they were therapeutic video games, so I had an excuse.

 

 

The

perfect
 opportunity to tell people about Skippy’s revelations never
happened. Instead, I had to settle for an opportunity that was merely good
enough. Ever since I had been rescued, I had been wracking my brain trying to
think of a good reason why Skippy would suddenly just happen to recover his
memories, a reason that seemed, well, reasonable. A reason that had nothing whatsoever
to do with the sudden collapse of microwormholes, and me getting captured by
Thuranin who wanted to remove my brain for examination, and the crews and
passengers of both ships very nearly dying in the cold dark loneliness of deep
space, of course not, why would you ask such a ridiculous question?

 
The excuse we used was that while Skippy was
working to rebuild 
Valkyrie’s
 horribly complicated computers, he had a
flash of insight into the hidden areas of his own matrix, and understood how to
access that previous forbidden data.

Yes,
it was kind of a lame 
explanation
 but we were running
out of time, and Chang, Simms and Smythe were asking me where the ships were
going next. I couldn’t issue orders without them knowing 
why
 I was
making decisions.

To keep
it simple for people, I typed out a list to summarize what I called Skippy’s
Book of Revelations, in short form. He was excited about the prospect of
informing the crew about what he’d learned, which should have made me
suspicious. I wasn’t sleeping well, so even if my brain was in great condition,
I was too tired to use it properly.

Anyway,
we reviewed the list so I could be sure he would hit the highlights and not
waste a lot of time on unimportant details. Of course, because the subject was 
him
,
he thought absolutely every little detail was of vital importance. “Skippy,” I
laid my weary head down on the desk, in the office where I uncharacteristically
had the door closed for privacy. Simms had ordered the crew to let me take it
easy while I recovered, and she always called before coming in to visit. No
doubt she thought I was spending most of my time playing videogames, which was
partly true. Except the games I was playing were designed by Skippy to
challenge my brain so new neural pathways would grow, or something like that.
All I knew for certain was the games were not much fun at all. It was my
suspicion that at least one reason the games were so frustrating was him
screwing with me, but I couldn’t prove it. Plus, I was showing steady progress on
the cognitive tests he made me take every morning, so I couldn’t argue with
him. “Let’s go over this again, Ok? Yes, you need to provide background for your
revelations, but you are getting way down into the weeds here. Some of this
stuff-”

“Those
background details are crucial, Joe.”

Preparing
myself for a long argument, I sat up in the chair. “You can include this stuff
as an addendum, for people to read later on their own. They will get-”

“No,
dumdum. What you call ‘background details’ are the dramatic opening scene, and
most of Act One. Without those scenes laying the emotional groundwork, the
audience won’t appreciate the-”

“Whoa!
Wait a minute. Act One? Of 
what
?”

“Well,
Joe, as a treat for the crew, and as a way of offering an apology for my little
temporary lapse in judgment, I will be presenting my revelations in the form of
a dramatic opera.”

“
Opera
?
Skippy, we are trying to keep this short.”

“Well,
of course, duh. I didn’t write the Ring Cycle, Joe.”

“Ring-”
I had no idea what he meant, and didn’t want to ask. For all I knew, the Ring
Cycle was what a washing machine did before the Rinse Cycle. 

“Ugh.
I am of course referring to 
Der Ring des Nibelungen
 by Richard Wagner,”
he pronounced the name in proper German fashion with a haughty sniff. “Four 
epic

operas first performed in 1876. 
Das Rheingold
, followed by 
Die 
Walkure
, then 
Siegfried
 and finally, 
Gotterdammerung
,”
he announced with a shudder of ecstasy.

“
Four

operas?” I also shuddered, but for a different reason. “How long do you have to
listen before the fat lady sings?”

“As
you are determined to be an uncultured cretin, there is no point discussing it
with you. The point is, the opera about 
my
 revelations is a mere three
hours.”

“Three

hours
?”

“Plus
intermission. And,” he sighed, “the inevitable demands for encores. Better plan
for four hours, to be safe.”

“Better
plan for the audience to beg for 
death
 after twenty minutes, you idiot.
No opera.”

“But-”

“No.
Opera.”

“Ok.
I thought you would say that, so as a backup, I have a real treat for everyone.
My revelations will be presented as a smash-hit Broadway musical! 
Oooh
, do you want to hear the stirring finale?”

“No!
Skippy, no music! You are not taking this seriously. Oh, I have a headache
again. Can you please, please actually 
listen
 for a minute?”

“If
I ignore you except to 
say
 ‘Mm hmm’ at regular
intervals, will you know the difference?”

“Probably
not,” I admitted.

“Then
go ahead.”

My
day kind of went downhill from there, and we agreed to talk again after I took
a much-needed nap. To my surprise, I actually slept. I slept so well that my
left shoulder and hip hurt from being in one position for more than an hour,
and there was a puddle of drool under my face.

Good
times.

 

 

“Can
we start over?” I asked, dropping into my office chair the next morning with a
fresh cup of coffee in one hand.

“Really?
Come on, Joe. You are barely halfway through the first level of that game, and
you want me to reset it already?”

“Not
the 
game
. I want to go back to discussing how you will tell everyone about
your revelations.”

“Oh.
Sure.”

“This
latest game you gave me sucks, by the way. Most of the time, I don’t even know
what my character is supposed to be doing, and the rules are totally-”

“It
does 
not
 suck, and figuring out the rules is part of the game. That
challenge engages your memory and executive functions, while making your
character move around engages your spatial awareness and eye-hand
coordination.”

“If
you say so. You didn’t have to make my avatar a monkey.”

“Dude,
really? What other choice did I have?”

“Let’s
drop the subject, OK?” I still thought his game sucked. “We agreed no opera and
no Broadway musical.”

“We
did 
not
 agree to that, you are just being a big 
poopyhead
.”

“
I

agreed, and that is final.”

“Whatever.
To comply with your outrageous demands, I have revised my plan, so I will now
be presenting a dramatic reading of the revelations.”

“No
dramatic reading.”

“Oh,
man,” he whined. “You are no fun 
at all
. Fine, Mister Buzzkill, how do
you want to tell everyone?”

“Skippy,
this crew is comprised of soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines. We are
professionals, and we are all familiar with the one vital tool that makes a
modern military organization so incredibly lethal.”

“Radios?”
He guessed.

“No.”

“Guided
weapons?”

“Nope.”

“Satellite
surveillance? Nuclear power?”

“No,
and no.”

“I
give up. What is it?”

“PowerPoint.”

“
What
?
How is that lethal?”

“It
is lethal to the 
audience
. You have never sat through a two-hour meeting
where some jackass reads the slides word for word. Ten minutes in, people are
doing the head jerk where they fall asleep and catch themselves 
before
 they fall out of their chairs. PowerPoint slides are
the best way to lull an audience to sleep. They will be daydreaming, and won’t
pay attention until they realize you actually have something important to say.”

“How
is that 
good
?”

“Because
they won’t have time to pick apart our bullshit story of how you recovered your
memories.”

“Oh.
Hmm. Joe, sometimes I forget that, for all my incredible intellect, I know
little about dealing with monkeys. All right, you’re the expert. Are you ready
to review the slides?”

“You
have the presentation done already?”

“I
threw it together while you were blah, blah, 
blahing

about, whatever you said.”

“Hit
me.” The presentation was not bad, I had him make only a few changes. Like
swapping his custom graphics for standard clipart, so people would focus on the
content instead of the pretty pictures. Also I had him remove the glowing references
to himself that were on. Every. Freakin’. Slide. Plus a few other minor changes
to remove details we didn’t need to cover. What I wanted was for people to dig
into the details on their own after the meeting, so they would be doing that
rather than thinking about holes in our story.

“One
last thing,” I added. “Don’t call it Skippy’s Book of Revelations. It’s Ok for
me and you to say that in private, but it might get some people upset.”

“That
was 
your
 idea, Joe.”

“Yeah,
and it doesn’t seem so funny now.”

When
the presentation was ready, Skippy asked about timing. “It has to be soon, Joe.
Chang has been asking a 
lot
 of questions, it’s like he knows there is
something different about me.”

“Did
you tell him you are ashamed that you panicked and cut the wormhole
connections?”

“Yes,
although that is 
not
 what happened, and that story is very embarrassing
for me.”

“True.
What actually happened was much worse. Maybe we should just tell people the
truth, huh?”

“Let’s
not be hasty, Joe.”

“I
thought so.” Checking my laptop, I saw there were no dropships in flight from
either ship. Fabron had his Commando team suiting up for an exercise outside 
Valkyrie
,
but they would not be going through the airlocks for another forty minutes.
Nothing important was on the operations or maintenance schedule for another
five hours. “Are you ready?”

“You
mean, like, 
now
?”

“Yes,
now. Is this a bad time?”

“This
is actually an excellent time. Nagatha knows I am conducting an exhaustive analysis
of Bilby’s matrix.”

“Do
it.”

“Ok.
Three, two, one, showtime.”

The
lights flickered, and butterflies danced in my stomach as artificial gravity
fluctuated. When the lights and gravity returned to normal following less than
a second of interruption, I waited for a call from the bridge. It took eight
seconds for Simms to contact me, longer than I expected. “Sir? We can’t contact
Skippy. What the hell was 
that
?”

“One
moment, Simms,” I cut the connection, making her wait twelve seconds. Then I
pretended to be shocked about something. “Holy 
shit
. Simms, the ship is
OK, we’re all Ok. Skippy just discovered something that, uh. You better come to
my office. I will conference in Chang.”

 

Simms
and Chang got the short version from me, hitting only the most important
highlights. While we asked him questions, Skippy acted even more distracted and
absent-minded than usual, repeating himself several times.

“Skippy,”
Chang asked over the link from the 
Flying Dutchman
, parked about eight
kilometers away. “Are you all right? Should I ask Nagatha to-”

“I’m
fine,” he gave a world-weary sigh, worthy of at least an Oscar nomination for
Best Supporting Asshole. “This is, this is all such a 
terrible
 shock, as
you can imagine.”

“Skippy,”
Simms held out a fist to his avatar. “We 
can’t
 imagine what you are
going through. We are your friends, we’re here for you.”

The
avatar bumped her fist and sobbed. Huh. I don’t think he was 
faking,

he was genuinely overcome with emotion. “It was a 
lie
, all of it,” he
sobbed. “My whole life since I woke up has been a lie. The, the 
only

thing that is real is the friendships we have developed.”

After
that was a whole lot of incoherent blubbering, something like “I love you guys’
and ‘You are the best’ and ‘I don’t deserve you’. Hearing him blather on like
that overly-emotional drunk guy at a wedding, made me afraid he would get
overwhelmed and blurt out the truth, so I cut the meeting short. “We need to
inform the crew, everyone. This is too important to be left to the rumor mill.
I’m calling an all-hands meeting for thirty minutes from now. Skippy, can you
throw together a presentation in that time?”

“Sure,”
he sniffed, still choked up. Then his voice changed, became hopeful. “Unless
you’d 
prefer
 I present the information in operatic
form?”

“I
would 
not
 prefer that,” I said quickly.

“A
Broadway musical of sweeping scale?”

“Maybe
later?”

“How
about a dramatic reading, in the style of epic poems like Beowulf?”

“Um,
can I get back to you on that?” I said, but with the corner of my eye, I saw
Simms was glaring at me. Oh crap. Her motherly instincts were kicking in. She
probably thought that, as Skippy was clearly traumatized, I should throw him a
bone. She did not understand that I was trying to prevent him from traumatizing
the 
crew
. “Hey, buddy, how about this? You just present the basic facts.
Then, people who want more details, they can watch your dramatic reading, or
the musical. 
No
 opera.”

“Deal!”
His emotional blubbering was instantly gone, leaving me to wonder if I just got
played. Of course he had suckered me into subjecting the crew to another long
Skippy 
crapfest
. And, damn it, now 
I
 had to
listen to it!

After
he disappeared, I turned on my tablet to play the video game, and saw that my avatar,
instead of being a monkey was now a poop emoji.

I
guess I deserved that.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER NINETEEN

 

People
needed time to process the astonishing news from Skippy. The Commandos took it
in stride, which should not have been surprising. They hadn’t known Skippy for
long, and they were still processing the fact of humans causing havoc across
the galaxy in a pair of 
stolen freakin’ starships
.

“What
does this mean?” Chang swirled the glass in his hand while we sat in my office,
making the ice cubes tinkle with a pleasant sound. Sometimes, I think half the
enjoyment of drinking scotch is the ritual of getting out a heavy glass,
pouring in a finger or two of golden liquid, adding ice cubes if you like, and
swirling it around to take in the aroma.

For
the occasion, I had gotten the good booze out of my secret stash. Single-malt
scotch for me and Chang, and I made a Bee’s Knees for Simms. For those of you
who aren’t familiar with that drink, it is delicious. Gin, lemon juice and
honey syrup, which is basically honey diluted with 
water

so the honey doesn’t sit in the bottom of the glass. It tastes like summer, no
matter where you are. Watching Simms enjoy her glass, I almost regretted
pouring a scotch for myself, but it was a guy bonding thing with me and Chang.

Simms
answered before I could. “It means, the galaxy is even more dangerous than we
thought. Even if by some miracle we keep the bad guys away from Earth, our
homeworld could get swallowed up in a conflict that could destroy all intelligent
life here.”

“Skippy,”
I looked at the ceiling. He had not chosen to appear in his avatar, probably to
give the three of us time together. “What about the Beta site? Would the
satellite galaxies and star clusters be safe if the other AIs wake up?”

“Not
a chance, Joe,” he said with a verbal frown. “Any place I can reach, they can. I
mean, assuming that other AIs can get someone to fly them around in a starship,
which is a pretty safe bet. In that case, 
nowhere
 is safe.”

Chang
stared at his glass, and uncharacteristically gulped half of the drink. “We
really, 
really
 do not need this shit right now.”

“Sorry,”
Skippy mumbled.

“What
I want to know is,” Simms set her drink down, leaving a ring of condensation on
the desk. “Do we have an even worse potential problem?”

My
own glass froze halfway to my lips. I was sipping slowly and had poured only
one finger of scotch for myself. Despite Doctor Skippy giving me full clearance
to resume normal life, killing brain cells with alcohol did not seem like a
good idea. “Worse than killer AIs ordering Sentinels to exterminate all
intelligent life in and around the galaxy?” I asked. “Like what?”

“Like,
whatever scared the shit out of the freakin’ 
Elders
,” she answered.
“Skippy, what were they afraid of?”

“
Dunno
,” he said. “Sorry.”

“What
do you mean, you don’t 
know
?” I demanded, kicking myself for not having
asked that question before. Hey, I had brain damage back then.

“I
don’t. Like I said, sorry. Either those memories are still inaccessible, or the
Elders did not provide that information to me. Or, hmm, maybe that data got
erased by the worm when it attacked me the first time? This is very
frustrating. Joe, since I recovered my memories, I have been analyzing the
details. Some of it, a disturbing portion, of the data does not add up. Like,
the dates can’t be right. Or one detail contradicts another.”

“Holy-”
The scotch nearly splashed in my lap. “
When
 were you going to tell us
about this?”

“I’m
telling you now.”

“You,

oh
,” he had me so mad I couldn’t think straight. “All 
this
recovered memories
 thing might be total 
bullshit
?”

“Um-”

“That
was 
not
 the right answer,” I jabbed a finger at him.

“No.
Is that better? 
No
, it is not bullshit. Not all of it. Joe,” his avatar
appeared, looking from me to Simms to Chang. “Jennifer, Kong. I’m doing the
best I can. When I regained access to my memories, they were a disorganized
jumble. It is possible, even likely, that the contradictions I’m seeing are a
result of the way I put the pieces together. Or the data might have gotten
corrupted when the first or second worm attacked me. The basic facts are 
not

in dispute.”

“Ok,”
setting the glass down with a shaky hand, I sat back in the chair. “Does any of
this matter?”

“It

does
, if, or when, other AIs begin to wake up,” Skippy insisted.

Chang
held up a hand to stop my next outburst. “Realistically, can we do anything to
prevent AIs from awakening?”

“That’s
the point,” Skippy replied with an accusing glance at me. “We might be able to
do something about it, if I can verify my memories, figure out what data I have
is accurate.”

“How
can we do that?” Chang continued, as I sat back. I was too emotional to think
about it rationally.

“There
are a few key events that could be either confirmed or disproven, by going to
those sites,” Skippy proposed.

Simms
pursed her lips, sharing a look with me. “I do not like the sound of that. Go
to sites where AIs might be lying dormant? That is poking a hornet’s nest with
a stick.”

“No,”
Skippy shook his head, the ginormous admiral’s hat bobbing like a ship on a
stormy sea. “I meant, like, we go to the sites of ancient battles, see if the
facts line up with my memories.”

“Ancient
battle sites?” I asked. “Like Newark?”

“Sure.
Although there are other sites that-”

“Can
you put together a list?” I asked, feeling a headache coming on. “Before we go
flying around the galaxy on a sight-seeing trip, we have to-”

“
Sight-seeing
?”
Skippy screeched, outraged.

“Sorry.
I shouldn’t have said it that way. Listen, I need to think about this. It’s all
new to me, you understand?” I looked down at the table, so Chang and Simms wouldn’t
see I was lying.

Skippy
played along. “Hey, it’s all new to me too. This is a 
terrible
 shock,”
he added for dramatic effect, when he should have kept his mouth shut.

We
would reach the wormhole in twenty-two hours, so I had that long to think about
where to go next. What to 
do
 next.

 

 

Chang
went back to the 
Dutchman
, to answer questions from that ship’s crew.
Really, he knew as much as they did. Anyone wanting additional details would
have to sit through a recording of Skippy’s dramatic reading, which meant not a
lot of people were curious enough to endure that punishment. Chang designated
two of his crew to sit through the recording, and create a summary that they
distributed to both ships. That was a great idea, wish I had thought of it.
Skippy, of course, was outraged, which was a nice bonus.

What
to do next? I didn’t know.

According
to Skippy, though he was vague about the details, we still had roughly nine
weeks until he could attempt to wake up the dormant Backstop wormhole. He
couldn’t send the instructions to activate it, until after the local network
finished moving it into position near Earth, and it took a long time to move a
wormhole. So, we had a couple of choices. We could play it super safe, fly to
the far end of Backstop, and wait there. It was empty interstellar space, zero
risk of any bad guys finding and attacking us there.

Or,
we play it slightly less safe, and go back to the planet where we rehearsed the
rescue operation. Club Skippy was still in operation there, our departure had
been so hasty, we left a lot of stuff behind. Club Skippy was a good option
because it was isolated enough that the bad guys couldn’t get there in the
short term, and it would allow our passengers and the crew to get shore leave.
Being aboard a starship is exciting, until you are stuck inside the hull for day
after day after day.

Or
, we could go flying off on a
sightseeing trip, to verify which of Skippy’s recently recovered memories were
true. It was an issue of what the Army calls Resource Management. Basically, Resource
Management is making the best use of the assets you have available. Like, should
you task your artillery to provide cover for a platoon that is in danger of
being overwhelmed, or to pound the enemy lines so your force can exploit a
breakthrough? It might sound simple; save the platoon first, then shift fire
back to support the attack, but that isn’t true. By the time the platoon has
extricated itself from danger, the opportunity for attack might have become
OBE. Like, Overcome 
By
 Events. Also, you have to
consider that an attack might take pressure off the platoon, kill two birds
with one stone.

That’s
a hypothetical example, but the point is, you have only so many assets
available, and a commander has to decide how to use them to support the
objective.

My
problem was a bit more complicated. I first had to decide what the 
objective

was. I had two starships under my command. What should we do with them?

 

To
help me decide, I reviewed the list of sites that Skippy wanted to visit. Some
of them sounded interesting, some of those were too dangerous to approach in my
opinion. “Hey, Skippy. I have a question about this list.”

His
avatar appeared. “If you’re asking why I didn’t put them sites in alphabetical
order, that is because-”

“That’s
not it. I see you listed sites in order by travel time, that was very helpful.
My question is, why bother going to these sites at all?”

“You’re
kidding me, right? Jeez, I explained this. We have to know which of my memories
are accurate and which-”

“No,
we don’t.”

“
No
?”
He was flabbergasted, staring at me in disbelief. “Do you not understand what-”

“What
I don’t understand is why I should risk two starships, and over a hundred
civilians, to figure out which electrons in your memory are recording the
truth. We survived just fine for years without the memories you recovered.”

“First,
my memory storage does not rely on electrons, dumdum. Second, we have not been
‘just fine’. We have been flying blind, not knowing-”

“Hold
on a moment, OK? I don’t want to get in an argument, and I don’t want you to
think I don’t care about how this affects you. My question is, how does this
affect 
us
? I’m asking a practical question, you understand that? When we
get back to Earth, I will have to answer a lot of questions about decisions I
made out here. To prepare, I have to write up reports.”

“Ugh.
Joe, you hate writing reports to justify your actions.”

“Yeah,
but that doesn’t mean I shouldn’t do it. I’ve been thinking about this
recently. If we risk our ships to verify your new memories, I need a reason how
doing that is important to humanity.”

“Dude,
seriously, you can’t see it?”

“No,
I can’t. At this point, it’s ancient history, Skippy. We can’t do anything to
change the past, and I really don’t see how what happened affects us now. We
know the truth now. That doesn’t change the fact that murderous aliens are
coming to Earth, and your memories don’t do anything to help us stop them. Does
it?”

“No,”
he conceded, being grumpy about it.

“Do
you see my problem?”

“No.
Maybe. Joe, is this your way of punishing me for what I did?”

“No.
No way. I forgave you. That was a low-down, rotten thing you did, but I
understand why you did it, and I believe you are sincere about regretting your
actions.”

“Joe,
when I realized what I did, I regretted my whole freakin’ 
life
.”

“Right.
This has nothing to do with punishment.”

“OK.
Listen, how about this? You talked about aliens coming to Earth, and not being
able to stop them.”

“Exactly.
That’s why we have to bring as many people as we can to the Beta site.”

“The
Beta site won’t be safe, if other Elder AIs wake up.”

“I 
know

that, Skippy. There’s no point worrying about that, because we can’t do
anything about that.”

“Um,
I’m not so sure about that.”

What
he said next blew my mind.

 

When
I reviewed the list of sites that Skippy wanted to visit, I had been planning
to find a way to tell him we couldn’t do it, that it was too 
risky

and I couldn’t justify flying around to satisfy his curiosity. Now that Skippy
had smacked me with some knowledge, I didn’t know what to do.

To
help me decide, I called Smythe. He had an excellent, focused mind, a great
contrast to my scatter-brained approach to life. We hadn’t spoken much since he
gave me the pep-talk about trusting myself. We had both been busy, and most of
the time we had been aboard different ships, so there hadn’t been much
opportunity for chit-chat.

Jeremy
Smythe is not much of a chit-chat kind of guy anyway.

 

“Hey,
Skippy?”

His
avatar appeared immediately. “What’s up?”

“I’m
going to call Smythe in, to talk about our next step. Like, whether we should do
like you suggested, and fly around to check which of your memories are accurate.”

“Oh,
that’s easy, Joe. I can save both of you the trouble is discussing anything.
The answer is yes, we should.”’

“Yeah,
that’s the problem. I want to get 
his
 advice, without your influence.
So, you stay out of it, OK?”

“Well,
sure, if you want to make decisions without including the 
one
 person who
actually 
knows
 anything about the subject. Brilliant idea, Joe. Your
leadership is truly inspiring.”

“Just
keep your mouth shut unless I call you, can you do that?”

“I
can do a whole 
lot 
of incredibly stupid things. Hey, how about I let the
kids play with railguns?”

“Very
funny. Just stay out of it.” Waving a hand through his avatar always annoyed
him, it made him disappear, so that’s what I did. I pinged Smythe, knowing that
he was off-duty, and his schedule didn’t have anything listed for the next nine
hours. 

 

“You
wished to see me, Sir?” Smythe arrived dressed in the type of wool sweater that
I associate with the British Army, it had patches on the shoulder and elbows. He
made it look good.

“Yes.
Come in, sit down. I want your advice about our next step.”

He
settled into a chair. “We are not going to the Backstop wormhole?”

“Yes,
later. Skippy says he can’t try activating it for another nine weeks. Then he
guesses it will be another week before it is stable enough for us to fly
through. The question is, what should we do in the meantime? The obvious option
is to fly straight to Backstop, get there plenty ahead of time.”

“This
is the military,” Smythe smiled. “If you’re not early, you’re late.”

“True.
What I’m wondering is whether we could put that time to better use.”

“How?”

“Skippy
wants us to fly around, looking at sites of battles during the AI war.”

He
raised a skeptical eyebrow. “A holiday tour?”

“That’s
what I said, only I called it sight-seeing.”

He
sat back slightly in his chair, turning his head to look at me sideways. “What
is the point of that, Sir?”

“Some
of the memories he recalled are kind of fuzzy on the details, like one thing
contradicts another.”

“Bloody
hell,” Smythe spat.

I
held up a hand. “The main points are not in dispute. He thinks that if he can
verify key elements of his memories, he will know what is real and what’s not.”

Smythe
looked uncomfortable. “Sir, I’m sure that is important to Skippy, but any
action we take involves risk. We have civilians with us now. Sir, I don’t see
how verifying his memories furthers our objectives.”

“How
about this, then? The plan is to bring people from Earth to the Beta site,
shuttle back and forth as long as we can. That only works if the Beta site is a
safe haven, right? If the other AIs wake up, the Beta site is 
not
 safe. Skippy
thinks any info we can get about what happened to the opposition AIs can help him
if it comes to a fight.”

The
STAR team leader did not appear convinced. “In a war between Elder AIs, I
rather think we would be squished like bugs. What could we do?”

“Kill
the AIs before they can hit us,” I suggested.

“
Kill

an Elder AI?” Both of his eyebrows flew 
upward
 and he
sat forward in the chair. “I thought AIs like Skippy are virtually
invulnerable. How would we accomplish that?”

“We
have to 
find
 one first. Skippy thinks they may be vulnerable while they
are dormant.” That is what blew my mind when Skippy told me.

I
could see his expression change from humoring his commanding officer, to the
wheels turning in his mind as he considered possibilities. “How does Skippy
know this?”

“He
doesn’t know for certain. He is inferring, based on his own experience. When he
woke up buried in the dirt on Paradise, his connection to higher spacetime was weak.
Remember when the computer worm attacked him in the Zero Hour incident, and he
was Skippy the Meh, because he couldn’t access higher levels of spacetime?”

“He
couldn’t manipulate wormholes, or do any of the special things that make him
awesome,” Smythe said with only the slightest of eyerolling. “Elder AIs are all
like that when they are dormant?”

“He
doesn’t know, but there is no reason to think his experience is any different
from other AIs.”

“There
is a reason, Sir.” Smythe countered. “Skippy did not go dormant willingly. He
was attacked and disabled.”

“True.
When I asked Skippy about that, he told me the wake-up or reboot process he
went through, was the same as for ending a self-induced dormancy. Although, he
did admit his memories of that time are vague. The point is, he thinks there is
a strong probability that Elder AIs are vulnerable when they are dormant. Not
vulnerable to 
us
, not with conventional or even nuclear weapons.
Vulnerable to someone who can manipulate spacetime, like Skippy. If he can sever
an AI’s connection to higher spacetime, it won’t be able to hurt us.”

“Assuming
Skippy is right. Also assuming we can catch an AI while it is napping. Those
are a lot of assumptions, Sir.”

“
And
,
assuming that Skippy’s new memories about the Elders are true.”

“What
is the plan?”

“The

plan
 is, I’m going to follow your advice. Have a strategy, so we’re not
just reacting to the enemy. If these other AIs become a problem, I want us to
have the capability to take them out, before they take us out.”

“You
said you need my advice. Why?”

“Because
we’re taking a risk, if we go poking our noses into dark places around the
galaxy.”

“This
is strictly a recon mission?” He asked. “We gather information. We will not be
poking a dormant AI with a stick?”

“No,”
I laughed at that mental image. “No sticks involved. What do you think?”

“The
risk of 
not 
going is greater than the risk of going.”

I
did a slow blink. “OK, I agree. Can you put that in nice words for my report?”

“It
is simple, Sir. Hostile Elder AIs are a clear threat to the Beta site. Once we
get back to Earth, we will not have time or resources to investigate that
threat. It is prudent to go now. Otherwise, the entire concept of a Beta site
is moot.”

“Good,
good,” I muttered, making notes on my laptop, in my own words. I couldn’t use
the word ‘moot’ because UNEF would know it wasn’t my idea. “Thank you.”

“You
realize a recon flight to verify portions of Skippy’s memories is only the
first step?”

“Yeah,
I get that.”

“Does
Skippy know where any of these dormant AIs might be hiding?”

“No.
But he does think he can begin to figure out where they might be, if he can put
together enough pieces from his own memories. He knows the broad outline of how
he came to Paradise, but not the details.”

Smythe
turned in his chair. It was subtle, but he was now aimed more toward the
doorway. He was restless, I knew how to read the signs. He also probably was
sending me a signal that I knew what to do, and he didn’t want to listen to me questioning
myself about a decision I had already made. “Will that be all, Sir?”

“Skippy
put together a list of sites he wants to investigate. I’m sending it to you,” I
tapped my laptop display. “take a look at it and let me know what you think.
Chang and Simms have the same info, I want an independent opinion.”

 

 

“Joe,
do you have any regrets?” Skippy posed the question to me, in a way that
sounded like he really wanted to talk about himself. I was in my cabin, changing
clothes for a workout.

“Uh,”
I thumped my chest with a fist, hoping to ease the heartburn that had been
bothering me for hours. “I regret that burrito I had for dinner.” We had a
make-your-own burrito night in the galley, with a bar set up with fixings to
scoop into your burrito. Two guys in line ahead of me were boasting about how
they liked their food hot and spicy, so to avoid looking like a wimp, I piled
on the peppers. “Those jalapenos just about killed me.”

“Jalapenos?”
he laughed. “Those were ghost peppers, dumdum.”

“
Ghost

peppers? What the hell?”

“Hey,

you
 decided it would be a good idea to throw an entire spoonful of
peppers on your burrito. You are from Maine, numbskull. You people think 
tomatoes

are spicy.”

“Well,
you should have warned me.”

“There
was a label on the bowl. It’s not my fault you didn’t read it. Besides,
watching you struggle to eat that burrito was highly entertaining. Now, can we
be serious? Do you have any regrets?”

“Of
course I do. What’s this about, Skippy?”

“Seriously,
you have to ask?”

“Hey,
sue me for caring,” I felt a flash of irritation at him. We were all scared
and-

“Sorry,”
he mumbled. “I just- Hmm.”

“What?”

“This
is going to sound silly to you. Joe, I feel 
guilty. 
Lying to the crew
about what really happened isn’t right, I feel guilty about it. What’s up with 
that
?
Guilt sucks.”

“Yeah,
well, sometimes it can be-”

“Really.
On the rating scale of emotions, guilt has to be near the bottom. I mean, 
Joy

is the number-one seed on the emotions scale.”

“OK,
yeah, I can see 
th
-”

“Followed
by my personal 
faves
, Contempt and Disgust.”

“
Those

are your fav- Of course they are. Forget I said anything.”

“My
least favorite is Surprise. Man, I hate that. Except, 
Mmm
,
sometimes it’s fun when I surprise myself, you know? Like when I’m writing an
opera, and I realize it is a true work of genius. I sit back and marvel at my
own awesomeness.”

“That,
uh, that must be great. Hey, what are you feeling guilty about?” A bad thought just
hit me. “Oh, crap, what did you do this time?”

“It’s
nothing 
new
. I just- Ugh. I feel like I never got punished for the crap I
already did. Abandoning you and all that. I need closure, Joe.”

“Closure?”

“Is
that the correct psychobabble term? I feel like I should have been punished.”

“Well,
Skippy, that-”

“Then
I can put it all behind me, you know? I pay the price, and it’s over, and I can
move on and forget about this guilt crap. Oh, that would be such a 
relief
.”

“That
is 
not
 how guilt works, you-”

“Egg-
zactly
. I don’t want guilt to 
work
, I want it to 
go
away
.”

Clenching
my fists did not help to get my irritation under control. “You really want me
to punish you?”

“Yes,
please. How about on the next Karaoke night, I sing one less song?”

“Uh,
no way. You are not getting off that easy. You want a punishment? 
Bilby
!”
I called the ship’s AI, who normally could not listen to our conversations.

“Uh,
yeah, Dude?”

“Bilby,
you should refer to me as ‘Colonel’.”

“Sorry,
Colonel Dude. What’s up?”

“I
want you to create a ‘Yacht Rock’ playlist for Skippy, and put it on continuous
loop.”

“
Hoooooh
,” Skippy shuddered with horror. “Not Yacht Rock,
Joe.”

“Yup,”
I actually rubbed my hands together, anticipating his suffering. “Think about
it: Hall and Oates. Loggins and Messina. The Pina Colada song.”

“Joe,
please, 
anything
 but that.”

“Christopher
Cross.” I continued. “
Captain and Tennille
.”

“Have
mercy,” he pleaded.

“
Bilby,
 also throw in there the ultimate punishment. The
collected songbook of 
Michael McDonald
.”

“
Noooooo
!” Skippy shouted.

 

Half
an hour later, I was in the gym, sitting down on a rowing machine when Bilby
called me. “Uh, hey, Colonel Dude. Should I, like, keep playing that music?”

“Yes.
I said to put it on a loop. Skippy needs to learn a-”

“It’s
just that, uh, I think he’s losing his mind.”

“Don’t
let him bullshit you. It’s been less than an-”

“It
hasn’t been long in your time. But in Skippy time, he has listened to that song
‘Muskrat Love’ three thousand, two hundred and fifty-three times. I’m about to
play it again, if you-”

“No.”
Crap, I’d forgotten about the difference in perception of time between 
meatsacks
 and AIs. “Stop it.”

“Oh,
cool,” Bilby said, relieved. “That was, like, cruel and unusual punishment.
Should I skip just that song, or stop the whole thing?”

“Stop
the whole thing. He’s been punished enough.”

“Totes
true, Dude. I only listened to that playlist the first time, and I could feel
my brain turning to mush, you know?”

“Yeah,
I know. Should I talk to him?”

“I
think he needs time to recover, you know?”

“Do
something nice. Play one of his own operas for him.”

“Listening
to his operas is 
real
 torture.”

“Trust
me. Just tell him you think it’s brilliant.”

“Oh,
I gotcha. Ironically, right?”

“No.
Sincerely.”

“Dude,
really?”

“Bilby,
just fake it, OK?”

“Wow,
man, I would need like, an Academy Award performance for him to believe me
about something like that.”

“Don’t
worry. Skippy is clueless, especially when he thinks you’re praising him.”

“It’s
amazing that someone as smart as Skippy can be so dumb, you know?”

“I
know.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY

 

Chang,
Simms and Smythe had different ideas about which sites we should investigate to
verify Skippy’s memories, but they all agreed we had to make the effort. Having
made the decision, I ordered us back to the fabulous resort planet we called
Club Skippy. I thought the civilians would be happy and excited to get off the
ships and see blue sky over their heads.

Man,
was I ever wrong about 
that
.

 

“Sir,”
Simms was exasperated and making an effort to be calm when she called me from one
of our docking bays. In the background, I could hear raised voices, punctuated
by crying and angry shouting. “Could you come down here, please?”

“Uh,”
I was in the cockpit of a Falcon dropship aboard 
Valkyrie
, prepping for
the drop to the surface. All I planned to do there was get a camp set up, and
spend a night sleeping under the stars before taking our battlecruiser out to
explore sites on Skippy’s list. “I’m launching in ten, what’s the issue?”

“The
civilians,” she lowered her voice and must have stepped away from the crowd,
the background voices became quieter. “They don’t like the idea of leaving the
ship.”

That
made me stare at the console speaker, wondering if I hadn’t heard her
correctly. The Pirates, me included, had spent so much time in our ships, we
couldn’t wait to get any opportunity for shore leave. “Can you say that again?”

“They’re

scared
, Sir. They think we are dropping them on this planet, leaving
them here.”

“This
was supposed to be 
fun
 for them,” I protested.

“
I

am not the person you need to convince.”

“Shit.
OK, yeah, I’ll be right there.”

 

My
meeting with the civilians went well. I gave a nice speech, they all cooperated
by boarding dropships, and everyone lived happily ever after.

I
am lying.

The
meeting was forty-five minutes of people yelling at me, and asking questions I
didn’t have answers for. Or didn’t have 
good
 answers, as far as the people
we rescued were concerned. “OK, OK,” I waved my arms for quiet, while standing
on a crate in a docking bay. All the civilians were there, and most of them
were not mad at me. As usual, the problem was a small group of rabble-rousers
who-

That
was unfair.

They
were scared. They were traumatized. They didn’t trust us, didn’t trust me, and
we had not given them much reason to have faith that we had a clue about what
we were doing.

“I
am sorry,” I tried to say above the din. “HEY!” I shouted and clapped my hands.
“I AM 
SORRY
!” That brought the background noise down to a level where I
could be heard. “We need to perform a reconnaissance mission, to verify
information we recently received. We are taking only one ship with us, because
we do not want to risk your lives. We could have parked 
Valkyrie
 in
interstellar space, but I thought you might enjoy being able to get off the
ship for a while, breathe air that hasn’t been recycled. The crew definitely
wants that. So, how about this? No one has to get off the ship if they don’t
want to. But, 
please
, can I get a group of volunteers to come down to
the planet with me? It’s a nice place. I want to show you the camp we’re
setting up. You fly down there with me, and come back here to tell the others
what you think of it. Can we do that?”

After
too much discussion, during which time 
Valkyrie
 swung around to the back
side of the planet, we got seven volunteers. It surprised me that Mr. John Yang
from Fresno was the first volunteer, I thought the guy hated me. Several
children wanted to 
go,
 the civilian adults talked them
out of that idea. Anyway, we launched even though the ship was out of position
for a direct descent toward the camp, that made the flight longer than
necessary and burned a lot of fuel and I didn’t care. The review committee, as
I had nicknamed the civilians in the Falcon’s cabin, got a nice, long, close-up
look at the planet. So they didn’t think we were concealing anything, on the
approach to the camp site, I flew a wide circle around the area, before setting
down on top of a hill that provided a good view of the area. The camp site was mostly
grasslands with trees growing thickly along the river that cut through north to
south. The site we selected was far away from the mockup villages we had used
for 
training,
 we didn’t want the rescued people to be
reminded of where they had been held for so many years.

 

Chang
and I walked down to the river first so we could talk privately, while our
ground team gave the review committee a tour of the unfinished camp. After a
while, I wandered over to where John Yang from Fresno was huddling with the
others, talking about the pros and cons of being on a planet compared to being
in orbit. Checking the clock on my zPhone, I held out a pair of binoculars to
Yang. “Look up there,” I pointed overhead. “See that bright dot? That’s the 
Flying
Dutchman
. It is right up there.” Before we left that ship, I had instructed
Chang to bring his ship into a very low orbit, for better visibility.

Yang
looked at the starship, and passed the binoculars to the others. “The 
Dutchman

can protect us, from orbit?”

“Yes,”
I stated, and Chang nodded agreement.

“Colonel
Bishop,” Yang asked. “You said aliens can’t reach this planet. Why then do we
need a starship to protect us?”

Ah,
shit, I thought. Yang must have been a lawyer before he got kidnapped by the
Kristang. That wasn’t true, I knew from his file that Yang had been a software developer.
Not knowing what else to say, I mumbled “It’s a precaution.”

“
Valkyrie

is a battlecruiser?” He asked. “We have heard the crew refer to the 
Flying
Dutchman 
as a ‘space truck’.”

“Well,
it’s-”

“We
would feel better,” he looked around at the other civilians, and instantly I
knew they had planned this moment. “If we had 
Valkyrie
 overhead,
protecting us. Since,” he narrowed his eyes and looked straight at me. “You
think we need protection.”

 

I
had to think about it, or at least pretend to think about it. Chang and I
walked away to speak privately, and I reached into a pants pocket and held out
a fist.

He opened
a hand, confusion on his face. “What?”

Pretending
to drop something into his hand, I explained. “Here are the keys to 
Valkyrie
,
the ship is yours.”

He
looked at the civilians and shook his head. “Are you sure about this?”

“Yeah.
It makes sense. This will give you time to get familiar with 
Valkyrie
,
for cross-training. Plus, with a battlecruiser, I might be tempted to do
something stupid out there. With the 
Dutchman
, I’ll be careful.”

“Will
Simms be going with you?”

“No,
she should stay here. She can show you how 
Valkyrie
 operates. We won’t
be gone long,” I assured him. “Reed can serve as my XO.”

“Bilby
is ready to act as the ship’s AI?”

“According
to Skippy, yes. Nagatha agrees. Kong, remember that Bilby 
acts
 like a
surfer who burned his brain out smoking too much weed, but he is actually very
smart.”

He
snorted and looked over at the group of civilians who were waiting for me to
make a decision. “You know they 
played
 you.”

“Not
really. It’s good for the civilians’ morale. 
Beside,
”
I shrugged. “This was something I was thinking about doing anyway,” I admitted.

“Why
didn’t you say something?”

I bent
down to pick up a stone, and threw it into the stream. “The 
Dutchman
 is
your ship now. I didn’t want to take the ship away from you, even temporarily.
Are you OK with me borrowing your ship? I won’t scratch the paint, I promise.”

“You
hand me the keys to the most powerful warship in the galaxy, and you’re 
apologizing
?”

“When
you say it like that, it makes me feel stupid.”

“You
be careful out there, Joe.”

“I
will. Don’t break 
Valkyrie
 while I’m gone.”

“I’ll
run the ship through the wash before you come back.”

 

Simms
was not so thrilled when I offered her an extended shore leave. “Sir, I should
be coming with you.”’

“Simms,
it’s a simple recon flight. Reed will double as XO and chief pilot. She can fly
the 
Dutchman
 blindfolded.”

“Reed
has limited time with the 
Dutchman
 Four Point Oh,” Simms pointed out, using
the official designation of our many-times-rebuilt former star carrier.

“This
will be an excellent opportunity for her to get stick time, without someone
shooting at us. Seriously,” I tried to assure her. “Come on, this is a win for
everyone. You show Chang how 
Valkyrie
 operates, and you get shore leave.
Frank Muller will be down there,” I added.

“How
is this a win for Reed? She misses out on shore leave. She still has a 
broken

arm.”

“Skippy
told me her arm is fine, the cast will be coming off in three days.”

“I
still don’t see how she wins,” Simms frowned.

“She
has an opportunity for more one-on-one time with 
me
,” I explained.

Simms
rolled her eyes. That might have been insubordination, if I wanted to be a dick
about it. “Sir, this may be shocking news, but you can be kind of annoying.”

“Then
this will be an opportunity for me to work on being less annoying. Simms,
seriously, enjoy shore leave with your fiancé. We’ll be back before you know
it.”

 

 

“You
have a unique opportunity,” Admiral Urkan of the Maxolhx Hegemony announced,
with a smile that revealed only the tips of his fangs.

Commander
Illiath stiffened. There was no point trying to hide that autonomic reaction.
The admiral’s embedded sensors, and the equipment saturating his office, were
no doubt giving him details about her state of alertness, mood, brain waves,
the hormones and various chemicals coursing through her blood, and anything
else he wished to know. Her experience with the admiral was that he very likely
did not bother to check that information, he simply didn’t care. “Sir, our
fleet is the most powerful military organization in the galaxy, we-”

Urkan’s
lips curled upward with amusement, exposing more of his gleamingly bright
fangs. “The Rindhalu might disagree with your statement.”

“Our
ancient enemy has impressive capabilities, but they don’t 
use
 them. We
are the most powerful 
active
 military force in the galaxy.”

“That
is a fair assessment. Why do you mention this?”

“Sir,
in every military organization, from the most primitive Wurgalan, up to our own
fleet, an ‘
opportunity
’ is never a good thing.”

“Oh.
Ho 
ho
!” He laughed. “That is entirely true. You will
note that I did not ask you to 
volunteer
 for this opportunity.”

“Would
it have made a difference?”

“Not
at all. Would you like to hear the details of this potential to impress your
superiors?”

“What
if I say no?”

“Excellent.
I appreciate your enthusiasm. This will interest 
you,

I promise. When we last spoke, you told me your theory that the ghost ship is a
creation of the Rindhalu. Either directly controlled by them, or they provided
a single ship to the Bosphuraq, to torment us.”

“To

distract 
us,” she corrected the admiral. “From whatever the enemy are
planning. Also to make us weak, and thus degrade our relations with our client
species.”

“Quite
so,” he nodded. “At the time, I was willing to entertain the possibility that
you might be correct.”

She
sat ever-so-slightly forward on her chair. “You believed me?”

“I 
still

believe that some of your findings are indeed inconsistent with the official
view of our fleet intelligence unit, and as a flag officer, I believe in
keeping my options open. This job involves a depressing amount of politics,” he
shook his head. “Illiath, I was willing to allow you to pursue your
investigation, before we learned that our ultra-secure communications
technology has been compromised.”

“That
was one incident,” she reminded the admiral. “No other sets of quantum
interchangers have been found in the possession of the Bosphuraq. Our
investigation has been 
very
 thorough.” Following the stunning discovery
of copied interchangers aboard the wreckage of a Bosphuraq battleship near Vua
Vendigo, a flash order was sent out across Maxolhx territory. All Bosphuraq warships
were stopped and searched, then ordered to return to the closest support base.
The Bosphuraq ships assigned to the wormhole blockade were scanned at the
molecular level, before being permitted to fly out to serve as part of the
blockade force. “So far, Sir, there was only the one set of compromised
interchangers.”

“One
set is enough. It demonstrates that our clients have the ability to create
blank units, and assign them to duplicate our own authentication codes.”

“But-”

“It
also has not been explained how they are able to wipe an 
interchanger
,
and reassign it. Interchangers are a single-use technology, even we can’t alter
them!”

“That,”
she admitted, “is a puzzling development.”

“Commander,
interchangers were found aboard a Bosphuraq battleship that was involved in an
action with the ghost ship, where one of our heavy cruisers was destroyed. We
must assume the ghost ship has more interchangers, and we have not been able to
stop and search that ship. We know with absolute certainty those interchangers
were not stolen from us.” An exhaustive search of the inventory revealed there
were none, 
zero
, interchangers unaccounted for. Worse, the tags in the
units found aboard the client ship were not in the distinctive sequence
embedded in all devices created in the Maxolhx production facility. There was
only one possible conclusion: someone else had the ability to copy that vital
technology.

“I
do not know what to say about that, Sir. Except that, if we are looking for a
species who are capable of copying interchanger technology, the 
Rindhalu

are more obvious suspects than the Bosphuraq.”

“Fleet
intelligence agrees.”

“They

do
?” She had heard no rumors of that change of circumstances, and her
sources were usually well-informed and reliable.

“Yes.
I suspect that is mostly because fleet intelligence continues to declare
interchanger technology is impossible to penetrate, and if a lower-tech species
succeeded in copying our tech, fleet intelligence would look foolish.
Regardless, they are now very eager to prove the Rindhalu are involved, in a
nefarious fashion.”

“Nefarious?”

Urkan
smiled. “I am quoting the report.”

“Have
the Rindhalu ever done anything that is 
not 
nefarious?”

“I
concede your point.”

“Our
ancient enemy held back our development for millennia,” Illiath made no effort
to conceal her rising anger. “When they could no longer contain us, they
attacked us with Elder weapons, and blamed 
us
 for the attack. We 
know

they struck first, yet most of the galaxy believes that we are to blame for the
destruction wrought by Sentinels. It makes no sense that we would have attacked
the Rindhalu, especially by using captured Elder technology.”

“Illiath,”
Urkan held up a hand. “You are preaching to the converted. It makes no sense
that the Rindhalu attacked us with Elder weapons, yet they did, and we both
paid the price. The Rindhalu cannot be trusted, we all know that. That
undeniable fact is why you are being offered a unique opportunity.”

“Yes,
Sir. Will you please tell me the nature of this opportunity?”

“The
Rindhalu are also alarmed by the possibility of the Bosphuraq having advanced technology.
They have requested a 
joint
 investigation.”

“Of
course they have,” Illiath spat. “They want to know how much 
we
 know
about their involvement. Any transfer of information will be one-way, from us
to them.”

“Undoubtedly.
You will need to handle any information transfer very carefully.”

“Can
I refuse this assignment?”

“No.
That is why it is an ‘order’ and not a ‘request’. Illiath, you should be
honored. You were specifically requested for this assignment.”

“By
the 
Rindhalu
?” She asked, astonished. “Sir, I only met them the one
time.”

“No,”
he laughed. “Not by the Rindhalu. By fleet intelligence.”

“Why
would they- Oh.”

“Exactly.
If you are right about your suspicions, fleet intelligence can claim that is
why they requested you as liaison with our enemy. If you are wrong, you are
expendable. The commanders of fleet intelligence also wish to keep their
options open.”

“I
should be 
honored
 to be considered expendable?”

Urkan’s
ears stood straight up then drooped to the sides in a shrug. “You should be honored
that the intelligence office remembers your name.”

 

 

“What
do you mean, it’s busted?” I glared at Skippy’s avatar, floating in the air to
the left of the main display on the 
Dutchman’s
 bridge.

He
gave me the side-eye, and slowly explained “It is not functional, Joe. What
else did you think I meant by ‘busted’?”

“Details,
you jackass. What is the problem?”

“If
I knew the source of the problem, I would have told you. And I would be working
to fix it.”

“Wait,”
I held up a hand, more for myself than him. From the pilot’s couches, Reed and Chen
looked back at me. They were not shirking their duties, they had nothing to do.
Our jump drive wasn’t working. Without the ability to jump, we were stuck
there, twenty-six thousand lightyears from Earth.

The
mission had begun well. The first site we visited was the most important on
Skippy’s list. It was deep in the territory of the Esselgin, a species we had
no dealings with, nor did I want to engage with those snakes. Technically, the
Esselgin were shaped sort of like salamanders, they had long, slender bodies with
short rear legs splayed out to the side. A tail provided balance so they could
walk upright and use their forefeet as hands. Most species had legless animals
like snakes on their 
homeworlds
, and the Esselgin
were universally referred to as whatever snake-equivalents were called. The
stereotype was reinforced by the speech of the Esselgin, they had a distinctive
hissing lisp. In terms of technology, the snakes were roughly equal to the
Thuranin and Bosphuraq, though the Esselgin were much younger. They also had a
sort of bragging rights from always having been direct clients of the Maxolhx,
never having to suffer millennia as a third-tier species in the coalition.
Skippy warned that the Esselgin were smart and dangerous, because they were
also 
clever
.

Anyway,
none of that mattered to us at the time. The plan called for us to avoid all
contact with the Esselgin, all contact with anyone. That aspect of the plan
worked flawlessly, we did not detect any ships or even a fading jump signature.
Unfortunately, the first site we explored was a bust in terms of verifying
Skippy’s memories. Some of the details of that star system matched Skippy’s
newly-recovered data, but other details contradicted his memories, and he couldn’t
understand why. So, he was in a foul mood when we jumped away toward the next
site on the list.

 

Our
goal there was to explore an isolated star system that had been the site of a
major battle during the AI war, according to Skippy’s memories. If we were
going to find evidence anywhere to verify his newly-recovered memories, that
star system was a prime candidate.

It
should have been 
simple,
 it should have been safe. And
it was, right up until it wasn’t.

Getting
to the star system had required us to travel through four wormholes, with Skippy
screwing with the last one to connect it near ‘Waterloo’, as we were calling
the place. From the last wormhole, it was only a little over three lightyears to
the heliopause of the system.

See
what I did there, throwing in a 
sciency
 term like
‘heliopause’? That is the line where the bubble of plasma flowing out from the
star, is stopped by incoming pressure of the interstellar medium. Basically,
where the solar wind fades out. We wanted to be there, so our instruments could
sample that solar wind directly, instead of using spectral analysis.

Skippy
had found nothing unusual and more importantly, nothing dangerous. Nothing he
didn’t expect. Assured by that, I gave the order to jump us into the system, a
few light-minutes from the target planet.

The
details don’t matter much, so I won’t go into it, except to say that Skippy
found what he hoped; evidence that a major battle had raged there. The conflict
had been between two Elder starships, each controlled by one side of the AI
war. Based on the star’s continued instability and how the planets were in
radical orbits, Skippy concluded that one or both sides had used the star as a
weapon. According to his memories, one ship had fallen into the star, and he
was thrilled to find trace amounts of exotic elements still boiling up to the
surface. The other ship, the one with an AI on the side of the angels, had
limped off into the Oort cloud, where it self-destructed as its AI was dying
from an attack by a computer worm. By scanning the orbits of dull rocks and
chunks of dirty ice, he was able to project backwards to the explosion that
threw those objects out of their original orbits. It had been a horrific
battle, one that scorched an entire star system and left echoes that were still
evident.

The
epic scale of that battle is why Skippy had nicknamed that system ‘Waterloo’, but
I would have called it ‘Asculum’. That is because I am a soldier and have studied
military history. Also because I am kind of a nerd. Have you heard the term
‘Pyrrhic Victory’? In 279 BC, King Pyrrhus of Greece invaded southern Italy, to
help protect Greek colonists there against the growing Roman Empire. He kicked
ass in most battles, but the Romans were fighting on their own turf and could
bring in reinforcements, while Pyrrhus was limited to the troops and 
supplies
 he had brought with him. The legend goes that, after
he 
won
 the Battle of Asculum, his army had suffered so many casualties,
he was forced to retreat to Sicily. The battle between AIs in that star system
was technically a draw since both AIs were destroyed, but the good guys had
lost the advantage of surprise and were subsequently unable to achieve their
objectives in the war, and so I consider that a Pyrrhic victory.

OK,
enough with the history lesson. The name ‘Waterloo’ was good enough and I
didn’t want to get into an argument with Skippy.

 

We remained
in that system long enough for Skippy to confirm his memories were mostly accurate.
He was satisfied, and I was thrilled that all the agony he put us through had
not been for nothing. He was excited to move on to check the next site on our
list, and I was excited to get away from a place that still contained echoes of
battle that had nearly torn apart a freakin’ star. So, I gave the order to
begin jumping back to the local wormhole.

Nothing
happened. The drive coils didn’t explode, they just didn’t do anything useful. “Let’s
review the problem one step at a time. OK?” I asked. “Do it like, uh, what
would Friedlander call a fault investigation?”

“A
fault 
tree
, Joe,” Skippy was, well, snippy about it.

“Right.
Like, first you check if fuel is flowing from the gas tank to the injectors. If
it’s not, the problem is in the fuel supply. If it is, you check if the engine
is getting spark.”

“Yes,

duh
, knucklehead. A jump drive is a little bit more complicated than a
crude hunk of metal that burns dead dinosaurs.”

“You
know what I mean. Where is the problem?”

“That
is the problem, Joe. There
 is
 no problem.”

“Uh,
I’ve got a breaking news flash for you.”

“Very
funny. The problem is, the drive is working perfectly.”

“We
may have a different definition of ‘perfect’. What do-”

“There
is nothing wrong with the drive,” he insisted. “As far as I can tell, it is
doing exactly what it is supposed to. The problem is with spacetime in this
area. It’s like, when the drive projects the far end of the jump wormhole, it
gets wrapped around on itself in a loop, so the two ends join. The ship
actually does jump, it just doesn’t 
go
 anywhere.”

“Holy
shit. What could cause that?”

“I
have 
no
 idea,” he admitted. “I feel like an idiot.”

 

Over
the next two days, he tried everything he could think of to get the drive
working. Then he tried everything 
I
 could think of, except for the truly
crazy ideas I had. None of the creative ideas I was so proud of had any result.
The drive worked perfectly, except it moved us only fifteen point seven meters
with each jump. Skippy figured that out following our eighth jump attempt, before
that he had 
assumed
 we didn’t travel any distance at
all. That number, fifteen point seven meters, was significant. It was the
minimum distance between the event horizons of jump wormholes in local
spacetime. Any closer and the event horizons would interfere and essentially
cause the wormhole to collapse, or something like that.

His
best guess was that the far end of the wormhole thought it was projecting out
to where we wanted to jump, but spacetime got warped in a loop so 
there

was 
here
, and we didn’t go anywhere. It did not help that, as time
dragged on and he ran out of theories about why the drive was 
dorked
 up, he became depressed. “It’s no use, Joe,” he groaned
to me in the middle of the freakin’ night, waking me from the best sleep I had
in months. The sound sleep had not been due to me being happy and stress-free, it
was the opposite. It was from exhaustion. Since the drive failed, I had been
trying to put on a brave face and keep our small crew optimistic, but the fact
was, I knew they expected 
me
 to somehow get us out of the mess.

“Hey,”
I yawned and swung my feet on the floor, automatically careful not to hit my
head on the cabinet. Getting used to the too-small furniture aboard the 
Dutchman

took an adjustment period, I still hated crouching down in the shower. In all
the times the ship had been rebuilt, Skippy had not done much to fix the
cabins. There wasn’t much he 
could
 do, underneath and behind and crammed
inside each cabin were pipes and conduits and all kinds of mechanical equipment
that could be moved only so much. Anyway, that wasn’t important. “Don’t give up
yet, buddy.”

“Thanks
for the encouraging words, Joe. That doesn’t solve the problem. 
Nothing

solves the problem.”

Asking
if the conversation could wait until morning would be a waste of time. Besides,
with absolutely nothing to do, I could take a nap to catch up on sleep that
afternoon. Because I am smarter than the average bear, I had stashed a Thermos
of coffee for emergency use in the dark hours of the night. “Give me a minute
here,” I pleaded as I unscrewed the cap and poured a half cup of still-hot
coffee into a mug. “Ah,” that first sip tasted good. “OK, go ahead.”

“With
what?”

“Tell
me what’s bothering you.”

“Dude.
Seriously?”

“Besides
the obvious.”

“The
obvious is the 
only
 thing bothering me. It’s the only thing I think
about.”

“Gotcha.
How about this?” I asked as I pulled on pants, knowing my chances of getting
back to sleep were somewhere between zero and fuhgeddaboudit. “Don’t try to fix
the drive. Try to imagine what could cause the drive to loop back on itself.”

“Did
that. Got nowhere.”

“Fine.
Let’s try it together. Give me a minute to get to my office.”

 

Setting
the Thermos on my desk, I pulled out a drawer to find a set of markers. Chang
had not thrown them away when he took command of our old star carrier, that
made me smile. “All right. You say that somehow, space gets compressed between
the far jump point and the ship. Spacetime is warped, something like that?”

“Basically,
yes. I’m guessing, but that’s what it looks like.”

“That’s
how ships travel in 
Star Trek
, right? They don’t actually move faster
than light, they create a bubble of spacetime around the ship, and 
space

moves. It’s called an, Alfonse drive?”

“
Alcubierre

drive. Named for the theoretical physicist Miguel Alcubierre, who was actually
pretty smart, for a monkey,” he conceded reluctantly. “The usage in 
Star
Trek
 is a retcon, Joe. They wrote it into the show after that theory became-”

“Yeah,
sure.” I didn’t want him 
nerding
 out over irrelevant
trivia. “Whatever. Listen, I thought one problem with that type of drive is, the
ship would slam into every particle on the way to its destination.”

“Technically,
no, but close enough. As space is compressed, all the dust particles and stray
hydrogen atoms along the way are still in the ship’s path. For a ship traveling
between stars, that is a 
lot 
of particles.”

“Uh
huh. So, why aren’t we seeing that?”

“Excuse
me?”

“The
first time we attempted to jump, our target was a third of a lightyear away. If
space got compressed over that distance, the ship should have been flooded with
radiation, right?”

“You’re
right. I did consider that. Spacetime compression such as Alcubierre described
can’t explain what is happening. I have been considering alternatives to
explain the compression, but none of my theories fit.”

“That’s
because your theories suck.”

“
What
?”

“You’re
saying they do 
not
 suck?”

“No,”
he grumbled miserably.

“Now
we’re getting somewhere. You need a theory to explain how the end of a wormhole
gets moved, across an enormous distance, in a very short time.”

“Impossible,
Joe. Nothing can do that.”

Something
was nagging the back of my mind, but I couldn’t focus on it. More coffee was
needed. And toast. Maybe strawberry jam, I saw that in the galley yesterday
morning.

 

Mmm
, toast. And fresh coffee. The galley was empty, I had to make a fresh
pot of coffee. The entire crew was eighteen people, plus me. Everyone else was
enjoying shore leave on Club Skippy. While pouring a second, technically third
cup of coffee, Nagatha greeted me. “Good morning, Joseph.”

“Hey,
Nagatha. Good morning. How are you?”

“I
am fine. Your conversation with Skippy was interesting.”

“Interesting
in a 
bad
 way.”

“Hmm, yes. You asked if he had another theory about how
the end of a wormhole could be moved a significant distance in a short time.”

“Yeah.
He says it is impossible.”

“Well,
of course he does, Dear. What he forgets is that he has already 
done

that.”

“Uh,
what? When was this?”

“It
was 
your
 idea, Joseph.”

Setting
the coffee cup down, I leaned back against the counter. “Remind me of this
genius idea I had, please. I don’t remember suggesting that. I don’t remember
is ever needing to- 
Oh
.” I gasped.

“Exactly,
Dear. Do you still need me to remind you?”

“No.

Skippy
!” I called him.

“What
is it now?” His avatar appeared, with his right leg in my coffee cup, which
showed how distracted he was.

“I
know how to move the end of a wormhole. Nagatha reminded that me that we already
did that.”

“No
we did 
not
,” he huffed.

“Did
too.”

“Did

not
.”

“When

Valkyrie
 needed to jump, you used the ship’s drive to move the end of a
microwormhole.”

“
Oooh
, that’s right! I forgot all about that. Hmm. That is
amazing. I am 
so
 
awesome,
 I don’t remember
every awesome thing I’ve done. 
Damn
, I am incredible.”

“Yes,
let’s focus on that.”

“Very
funny, Joe. Um, OK, good thinking. How does this help us?”

“I
don’t know. Could our drive somehow be screwing up by creating a second
wormhole, and using that to pull the end back to us?”

“No.
Not possible. Um, hmm. I can’t say that for certain. Shut up for a minute and
let me check on that.”

 

He
took more than a minute. We performed two more test jumps before he could say
for certain that our drive was not causing the problem. I was on the bridge, waiting
for him to announce the results of the tests.

“Hey,
Joe,” his avatar looked tired.

“Hi,
Skippy,” I replied casually, not wanting to get my hopes up. “What’s up?”

“I
have good news, bad news, and maybe really, 
really
 bad news. Good news
first?”

“Sure.”

“Our
drive is not causing the problem.”

“That’s,
good? What’s the bad news?”

“Your
stupid idea, that somehow a second wormhole is involved, is 
totally

wrong.”

“Me
being wrong about some technical thing isn’t bad news, it’s normal. Why do-”

“
That

is not the bad news, knucklehead. My point is, you are not so freakin’ smart, 
you
 big jerk. Anywho, you did point me in the direction of investigating
whether some outside force is interfering with our jump wormhole, so I guess I
have to thank you for that. Even though you were totally wrong and useless.”

“Again,
I am amazed at your laser-like focus on what is truly important.”

“Oh,
shut up. The bad news is this: someone, or some
thing
, is screwing with
our drive system, to loop the end of our wormhole back on itself. It’s
complicated, but basically, the drive is projecting the far end through folded
space, so it never actually goes anywhere.”

“Shit!
Can you fix it?”

“No.
Not that I know of. The force is external to the ship, so nothing I can do to
the drive system makes any difference.”

“You
said 
someone
 or something is doing this. Is there an Elder
AI still active here?”

“No.
No, Joe, I am certain of that.”

He
should have added that to the ‘Good News’ column. “Then, what is causing the
problem?”

“Um.
Well, heh 
heh
, it appears we have an active Sentinel
in the area.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY ONE

 

“Joe?”
He waved a holographic hand in front of my face. “
Hellooooo
?
Is anybody home in there?”

My
brain had locked up. “A Sentinel?”

“Yes.”

“A
freakin’ 
Sentinel
?”

“Correct.”

“A
real, live, giant killing machine 
Senti
-”

“Is
this going to be you saying the same thing over and over, just adding new
adjectives?”

“No.”
Shaking my head to clear my mind didn’t do much. “We didn’t detect this thing
before, because it is in a higher layer of spacetime?”

“Basically,
yes. Also because I wasn’t looking for it. Also because it is concealing itself
from me. I still can’t actually 
see
 the thing, Joe. Its presence is
inferred, based on its effect on local spacetime.”

“Because
it is doing this loop thing?”

“No.
That is very curious. Warping space back on itself is not a capability in the
Sentinel’s bag of nasty tricks.”

“So,
how is this one doing it?”

“My
guess, and I have to guess because the stupid thing refuses to talk with me, is
that this Sentinel has had a very, 
very
 long time to prepare space
around this star, so that starships can’t jump away.”

“Why
would it go through all that trouble? It could just saturate the area with a
damping field, like in the Roach Motel.”

“It
could, if it was merely concerned about a crude starship like the 
Flying
Dutchman
. This Sentinel wants to prevent an 
Elder
 starship from
jumping. Ordinary damping fields do not work against Elder ships.”

“It
thinks the 
Dutchman
 is an Elder ship? Why?”

“Well,
heh 
heh
, because of 
me
. My presence aboard this
ship is distinctive.”

“How
does it know you’re here? You haven’t done anything awesome since we arrived.”

“Um,
well, I did send out a ping to identify myself when we jumped in.”

“You

what
? Why the hell did you do that?”

“In
case there were, you know, Guardians or other nasties around, that might tear
the ship apart.”

Clenching
my fists and counting to five did not make me any less pissed off at him. “You
thought there might be Guardians here, and you didn’t mention it?”

“I
just 
did
 mention it. No, I did not think Guardians would be here, I was
only being extra super-duper careful, so you can thank me for that.”

“Thank
you? Your ping attracted the attention of a freakin’ 
Sentinel
.”

“Sure,
we know that 
now
. See? That’s what I get for being extra careful. Joe,
come on. There is no way I could have known that a Sentinel is still hanging
around here.”

“OK,
I guess that’s fair. You-”

“I
mean, I 
should
 have suspected there might be a Sentinel here, based on
the signature elements of the battle, but I didn’t 
know
.”

Hiding
my face with my hands, I mumbled “Skippy, if you were on trial, right now your
own attorney would be calling for the death penalty.”

“Um,
I’m going to stop talking.”

“Remember
all that bullshit you told me, about how you couldn’t trust your own judgment?
You should have at least told Nagatha what you planned to do.”

“Sir?”
Reed turned to look at me from the pilot couch. “When did Skippy say he
couldn’t trust his own judgment?”

Shit,
I thought as I mentally smacked my forehead. That had been a private
conversation, I forgot other people didn’t know about it. “Uh, you see,” I
babbled, stalling for time.

Nagatha
rescued me. “It was after Skippy fell for the trap planted by 
Valkyrie’s

original AI,” she lied. “Clearly, he was foolish.”

“Yeah,”
Skippy played along. “I do feel like an idiot about that.”

“And
cowardly,” Nagatha added.

“Hey!”

Waving
a hand, I wanted to cut that conversation short. “Nagatha, we can all agree
that was not Skippy’s finest hour. Let’s get back to the subject, please.
Skippy, why does the Sentinel care whether an Elder ship jumps away from here?”

“Again,
I am guessing because it refused to respond to me. Consider this: two Elder
starships, carrying two opposing AIs, fought a devastating battle here. No
doubt each AI attempted to order the Sentinel to act against the other AI.
Sentinels are machines, Joe. They don’t have the capacity to think, they were
designed 
not
 to think. This one must have been confused, traumatized,
even damaged. The battle ended with one starship, with its AI, falling into the
star, while the other ship limped away and then self-destructed. This Sentinel
is probably attempting to prevent further conflict, in the only way it knows
how to do that.”

“This
is not good, Skippy.”

“That’s
a fact, Jack.”

“What
can we do?”

“I
don’t know there 
is
 anything we can do.”

“You
have been talking with this thing?”

“Yes.”

“Have
you said something more than ‘hey how you 
doin
’?”

“Of
course I have. I ordered it to cease and desist. Or, I tried to.”

“Do,
or do not, there is no ‘try’.”

“
What
?”

“Forget
it. You tried to order it to stop? Why didn’t that work? Aren’t Sentinels built
to follow your commands?”

“They
are, 
if 
I have the correct authorization codes, and
 if
 I use the
proper communications channel. Neither of those are available to me.”

“Uh,
the communications channel was the network you called the Collective?” I
guessed.

“Correct.
It was deliberately crashed by the opposition. There is a protocol for circumstances
when the Collective is not available, but I can’t use that, because the
opposition cancelled my authorization codes. All I can do is identify myself as
an Elder AI, and ask it politely to release this ship.”

“Uh
huh. Did you explain that you had no involvement in the battle here?”

“That
doesn’t matter. Or, it does matter, and the Sentinel doesn’t care. It’s
impossible to tell, Joe, since the darned thing isn’t responding. Um, we may
have an even worse problem.”

“We
have a Sentinel standing on our necks. What could make this 
worse
?”

“I
think it’s damaged. It may not be capable of responding, so there is no
possibility I can issue orders, or reason with it.”

“Great,”
I gritted my teeth. “This looping effect, whatever it is, the effect is just
around this star. Can’t we just fly to the edge of the field, and then jump
away?”

“The
Sentinel would just follow us, Joe. I suspect that when it sees that we are
approaching the edge of the looping field, it would take direct action against
the ship. Like, things would go BOOM. This Sentinel very much does not want us
to leave.”

“Got
it. Scratch that idea, then.”

My
mind ran through a quick checklist of how we could get away.

The
Sentinel could simply let us go. 
That
 was unlikely.

We
could destroy the Sentinel. My mind had a little chuckle about that one.
Scratch it off the list.

Or,
we could somehow jump away. No problem, all we needed to do was figure out a
way for our stolen Maxolhx jump drive to break out of the trap.

Hmm.

That
 was also unlikely.

It
was time to put on my Thinking Cap.

 

 

We
all put on our Thinking Caps. We tried everything. Or, we didn’t actually 
try

any of the ideas that I, or Nagatha, or Reed or even Skippy himself dreamed up.
None of the ideas would work, or they wouldn’t work fast enough.

“Nope,
Joe,” Skippy sighed after I suggested he do his trick of creating an especially
flat area of spacetime around the ship. “That won’t work.”

“Why
not?” I protested. “You said it could disrupt the loop effect that is bending
our wormhole back on us.”

“It

might 
do that. Most likely it could do that. I don’t know for certain,
there is no way to test it. It won’t work for two reasons. The flattening
effect will not allow us to jump far enough to make a difference. And-”

“What
if we made a short jump, then immediately another-”

“Uh!”
He shushed me with a wagging finger. “I was getting to that. The biggest
problem we have with 
any
 of these ideas is that they won’t work fast
enough. If the Sentinel sees we are trying to escape, it would very likely destroy
the ship.”

Nagatha
gasped. “You believe the Sentinel would kill you, rather than allow you to
escape?”

“No,”
Skippy explained. “It could attack the ship without damaging 
me
.”

“Shit,”
I groaned. “That’s no good.”

“Exactly,
Joe,” he sounded as discouraged as I was. “Right now, it is content to leave
the ship intact, because it knows we can’t go anywhere.”

“Great.
Wonderful. We’re safe, as long as we stay here forever?”

“That
is pretty much the problem, yes.”

 

One
of my ideas, I kept until I was in my old office. “Skippy,” I called, looking
out the doorway to make sure no one was listening. “I hate to ask this-”

“But
you’re going to do it anyway.”

“Yeah.
We are trapped here because of 
you
, right? If you weren’t aboard the
ship, the Sentinel would have no reason to keep us here?”

“Um,
maybe? That is a huge risk, Joe. It did not react when we jumped in, because it
didn’t know I was aboard the ship. I didn’t detect its presence until after I
sent a ping with my ID code. Now, it associates the 
Dutchman
 with an
Elder AI. That makes this ship a target.”

“Crap.
Can I tell you my idea anyway?”

“Negative,

Ghostrider
. The pattern is full.”

That
made me laugh in spite of the situation. “Very funny. Be serious for a minute.”

“OK,”
he sighed. “Hit me.”

“Well,
heh 
heh
,” I mimicked him as best I could. “You are 
not

going to like this.”

“Crap.
What knuckleheaded plan have you cooked up this time?”

“Two
ideas. First, when you bailed on us-”

“Jeez,
Joe, don’t say that out loud!” He said in a harsh whisper as his avatar leaned
over to look out the door. He was being dramatic for 
me,

Skippy knew the location of everyone aboard the ship.

“Sorry.
When you went on vacation, your canister disappeared from local spacetime. Can
you do that again?”

“Why
would I do that?”

“Come
on, work with me,” I forced myself to be patient. If he didn’t understand me,
then I wasn’t explaining the issue properly. “You disappear, the Sentinel gets
bored and goes away, then the ship can jump out of here. It’s easy, duh.”

“Hmm.
Please, may I point out the 
many
 problems with that idiotic idea, 
duh
?
When I disappeared, I pulled my footprint out of local spacetime, up into the
layer occupied by the Sentinel, so it would know 
exactly
 where I am.
Also, you expect me to stay here forever?”

“Um,
no, I, whew. OK, maybe I didn’t think this through. It’s just, when you
disappeared, you came back in a different location, on the other side of the
planet. Can’t you do that again?”

“No.
I shouldn’t have done it the 
first
 time. It was a desperation move, Joe.
If I try that stunt again, I won’t be able to reestablish a footprint here. I
would lose my ability to interact with local spacetime. It won’t work 
anyway,
 I can’t move far enough to lose the Sentinel. Man,
of all the dumbass ideas you’ve had, that one is a prize-winner for sure.”

“OK!
Hey, I’m trying. That wasn’t my best plan. How about this: we load your
canister in the railgun, and launch you away. After you coast out to a safe
distance, we jump the ship away.”

“Nuh
uh. No way. Again, 
maybe
 that allows the ship to escape, but what about
me?”

“Oh,
I got that covered,” I said casually. “You will keep coasting away from the
star. Eventually, you go beyond the Sentinel’s range, call for us, and,” I snapped
my fingers. “We jump in to recover you.”

“Wow.
That is impressively idiotic. The 
Dutchman’s
 dinky little railgun can
accelerate me to about eight percent of lightspeed. For me to travel a
relatively short distance, say a light-month, would take more than a 
year
.
That is a full year delay in evacuating Earth, even assuming your plan works.”

“Hey,
I know that. I am only-”

“Forget
it, Joe. The Sentinel would follow 
me
. I would need to travel far more
than a light-month to go beyond its range, if that is even possible. That isn’t
the worst part. If I leave the ship, there is a very strong possibility that
Sentinel would tear the 
Dutchman
 apart.”

“I
didn’t say it was a 
good
 idea. It’s the only idea you haven’t shot down.
Could it work?”

“We
would have to be truly desperate to even try it, Joe.”

“You
think we are 
not
 desperate now? We’re trapped here. Unless you have a
better plan.”

“No.
All right,” he sighed. “It is actually 
not
 the craziest idea you’ve ever
had. Please, do not be in a rush to try this.”

“I
don’t want to do it at all. How about we try launching stuff from the railgun,
see if the Sentinel reacts?’

“I
have a very bad feeling about this. A bad feeling that if we try your plan, we
will never see each other again. And a bad feeling that if we don’t do 
something
,
we are trapped here forever. Joe, we are dealing with a 
Sentinel
. I fear
that maybe, there is not a way out of this.”

“Skippy,
there are times when I actually wish you were 
less
 honest with me.”

“Sorry.”

 

 

Reed
was in the galley when I walked in to get coffee that morning. A tough workout
in the gym, a good dinner and a solid eight hours of sleep had not sparked a
genius idea from my brain. Checking in with Skippy when I woke up, no one else
had thought of a way out of the mess we were in. We had been trapped by the
Sentinel for four days, with no end in sight. We had to do something. When I
woke up, I had told myself that this was the day. We had to launch Skippy with
the railgun, and hope the Sentinel did not crush the 
Dutchman
.

A
freakin’ 
Sentinel
 had us clutched in its talons.

Of
all the hopeless situations we had been in, this was the worst.

“Morning,
Reed,” I said through a yawn. “Fresh biscuits?” I asked, looking at the plate
in front of her.

“Yesterday’s
biscuits, Sir. They’re good, if you split them down the middle and toast them.”

“I
will take your advice.” Biscuits could wait for later, I needed coffee first.
Sitting down across the table from her, I sipped hot coffee and blinked my
bleary eyes, staring at what she was eating. She had biscuits slathered with
butter and jam. “Those 
do
 look good.”

“You
want one?”

“No,”
I waved a hand. “There are plenty in the fridge, I’ll get some in a minute.”
With such a small crew, we were cooking food only every other day, and eating
leftovers.

“I
love biscuits,” Reed moaned, taking a bite and licking raspberry jam off her
lips. “Did you know that when the Brits say ‘biscuit’, they are talking about
what we call a ‘cookie’?”

“I
did know that, Smythe told me. What I don’t know is, what do they call biscuits
in England?”

“Scones?”
She suggested.

“Scones
are different.”

“They’re
different to 
us
,” she reminded me. “They eat scones and tea, like we eat
biscuits and coffee. We also call dog treats ‘biscuits’, and those are nothing
like a real biscuit.”’

“True.”
Most of the time, I hated it when people wanted to talk in the morning, because
it made my brain think before I was ready. Stupid conversations, though, were
all right.

She
snorted. “I wish we had a biscuit that Sentinels like to eat. Then we could say
‘Here 
Senti
, 
Senti
’ and
throw it away from the ship. Make it play ‘Fetch’.”

“Holy
shit,” I set my coffee cup down before I spilled on the table.

Her
mouth drew into a line. “I wasn’t making light of our situation, Sir, it-”

“Reed,
you are a gosh-darned genius. Eat all the biscuits you want.”

 

“Skippy!”
I shouted as I walked into my office.

“You
bellowed, Master?” His avatar appeared instantly, making a deep bow.

“I
do not ‘bellow’.”

“You’re
not my master, either. What’s up?”

“Reed
has an idea.” I explained it quickly.

“Could
that work?”

“Hmm.
Shmaybe? If we don’t get caught. If we get caught, we are 
screwed
,
Dude.”

“Then
let’s not get caught. When can we get started?”

“I’m
ready now, if you are. Should you call the crew to alert?”

“No.
It will take days before-”

“Better
make it two 
weeks
, Joe,” he warned. “Eighteen days, to be safe, before
we can try this crazy idea. That’s an estimate, but we do 
not
 want to be
wrong about this.”

“You
got that right. I’ll be on the bridge in a minute, wait for me.”

 

Two
and a half hours later, because we were not in a hurry and I waited for Nagatha,
Reed and others to consider the idea, we launched a missile. Unlike in combat,
the weapon did not slam out of the launch tube, it was gently pushed away on
the lowest setting of the launch rails, and gradually built up acceleration. The
low-key launch was to avoid spooking the Sentinel that was hovering over our
position, in a higher layer of spacetime. Three other missiles followed, flying
away at ninety-degrees from each other. All four missiles had been stripped of
warheads sensors and all but the most rudimentary guidance equipment. Everything
not needed had been stripped out, to reduce the mass and make the missiles
faster. By the time their fuel load was exhausted, they were moving at twelve point
two percent of lightspeed, over thirty-seven thousand kilometers per 
second
.

That
sounds fast, but we needed the ‘biscuits’ to be far, far away from us before we
attempted to jump. Like, more than fifty-eight billion kilometers, or the
distance the missiles would travel in eighteen and a half days. That was
Skippy’s estimate, based on what he knew of Sentinels, plus a whole lot of
guessing.

The
missiles did not actually contain biscuits. Not fresh, fluffy, hot biscuits.
Not even stale, hard-as-a-rock biscuits. What was in the nosecone of each
missile was a containment device that held one end of a microwormhole. Skippy
had regained the ability to create and sustain a small number of the tiny
wormholes, although it was still a strain for him. Just before a missile
exhausted its fuel supply, it released the microwormhole and performed a random
series of turns, after which the unpowered weapons would continue to coast on
out into interstellar space forever. To avoid the possibility of a missile
smacking into a planet at ten percent of lightspeed, they were aimed at empty
space between stars, eventually leaving the galaxy and never being seen again.

 

 

The
Maxolhx heavy cruiser 
Telaxion
, which served as command ship for
Blockade Force Three, noted the appearance of gamma rays, from an inbound jump.
The jump signature was distinctively that of a Maxolhx courier ship, though the
gamma ray burst was not focused as it would be in a combat situation. That
feature had been disengaged to make the ship’s arrival more visible, avoiding
the possibility that some anxious and trigger-happy starship AI might panic and
shoot. More importantly, the Maxolhx did not want their Bosphuraq clients to
get a close look at the burst-focusing technology.

It
annoyed the Maxolhx ships assigned to the wormhole blockade, that they had to
tolerate the presence of ships from the Bosphuraq, Thuranin and even a handful
of Esselgin vessels. Blockading a normal Elder wormhole, a rip in spacetime
that hopped around in a predictable pattern, but one that covered a vast area
of space, required an enormous number of ships. So many ships that not even the
Maxolhx fleet could sustain the effort for long, or their ships would wear out
from the constant jump-recharge-jump cycles. The wormhole that led to Earth was

not
 normal, its emergences were unpredictable in both time and space,
and thus the number of ships required for an effective blockade were substantially
greater.

The
blockade had determined one very important fact, though as yet no one knew what
it meant. The wormhole that led to Earth had 
not
 gone prematurely
dormant. Ships ranged at varying distances from the wormhole detected
intermittent gamma ray bursts that signified the Elder creation temporarily was
opening then quickly shutting down. The openings were rare, and not on any
schedule. The locations of emergences were completely random, with the
exception that no location was repeated, and the wormhole never emerged at any
of the previous locations on its normal figure-eight pattern. Not being able to
predict where and when the wormhole might emerge again, made the task of the
blockade force exponentially more complicated. Pairs of ships had to blanket
the entire search area, with one ship designated to jump away for support if the
wormhole emerged again.

Some
of the sensor data, as yet too faint to be conclusive, pointed to a second
gamma ray source near the wormhole, during the irregular times when it opened.
Some of the science teams aboard the blockade ships speculated the second gamma
ray source was a starship, but if so, its signature was unlike any known ship.
As it was uncertain whether those faint gamma rays actually existed, or were a
glitch in the sensors, more data was needed before anyone would risk their
professional reputation on a guess.

Unfortunately,
since the blockade had been established, the wormhole had been consistently quiet,
with no sign that it ever would emerge again.

The
presence of Bosphuraq warships had been annoying at first, then after it was
discovered those rebellious clients had attacked and destroyed two ships of
their patrons, annoyance had turned to open hostility. When a rogue group of
Bosphuraq began attacking their patrons in a ghost ship, hostility had become
outrage and it had been necessary to separate the Bosphuraq ships, lest they be
‘accidently’ fired upon.

The
blockade, duty that was initially seen as insufferably tedious but necessary by
the crews of the Maxolhx ships, was now seen as a pointless waste of resources.
Maxolhx warships were needed to defend their territory from the ghost ship.
They needed to be home, not wasting time blockading a dormant wormhole.
Establish a strong defense around vital worlds. Then work inward, cutting off
the ghost ship’s access to wormhole escape routes. Squeeze the area in which
the ghost ship could operate, until it was trapped and could be hunted down and
destroyed. 
That
 was what the Maxolhx fleet should be doing. Instead, too
many ships were dedicated to the blockade of the wormhole that led to the unimportant
world called ‘Earth’ by the primitive humans who lived there. Humans who might
be extinct on their own homeworld.

 

The
courier ship followed standard procedure by identifying itself, and
establishing a communications handshake with the AI of the command ship, but no
additional data was sent. Instead, the courier ship burned its engines to come
to a stop relative to the heavy cruiser at a safe distance, and launched a
dropship. Due to the unusual action, the ships of the blockade force went to
yellow alert. That alert was cancelled shortly after the dropship docked with
the 
Telaxion
, and soon a shocking rumor began flying between the
blockading ships. An official message confirmed the unbelievable rumor: the
ultra-secure communication system that relied on paired quantum-state
interchangers had been compromised! Until an alternative system could be
devised, all sensitive communications must be shared by physical interface.

The
Maxolhx fleet had lost a vital advantage, and no one knew of any technology
that could replace it.

 

Crews
of the ships assigned to Blockade Force Three knew that arrival of the courier
ship would begin the process of a group of fresh ships cycling in, replacing
worn-out ships that would return to their bases for maintenance. The weary
crews of ships scheduled to go home prepared briefings, and insults for the
unlucky crews of ships that would soon be coming on-station as replacements.

Except
the briefings and insults were not needed. The courier ship had brought the
surprising but welcome news that Blockade Force Three would be cycling home for
hasty maintenance, before being thrown into the fight against the ghost ship.
But no replacement ships would be coming, not Maxolhx ships. A large number of
Bosphuraq ships would be arriving on-station in three days, after Force Three
cleared the area. The Bosphuraq ships were there to demonstrate their continued
loyalty, and to keep them from providing aid and comfort to the ghost ship.
With the breach of the secure communications system, it was thought removing
Bosphuraq warships from their home territory would be a good thing. The
departure of one force before the replacements arrived would leave a gap in
coverage, a gap that was considered acceptable under the extreme circumstances.

Why
not cancel the blockade, in the face of the ghost ship threat? The answer was
simple: the Maxolhx dared not appear to be weak, lest more resentful clients
were tempted into rebellion. Blockade Forces One and Four would remain in
position, a powerful symbol of the continued overwhelming strength of the
Maxolhx Hegemony. If any cynics noted that Forces One and Four were being
stripped of their heavy warships, leaving the blockade to be conducted by
frigates and destroyers, they kept such thoughts to themselves.

Force
Three had to be pulled together before the formation could fly away, a process
that took less time than expected because the crews were highly motivated to
get home. Nine hours after the courier ship arrived, the heavy cruiser 
Telaxion

led the way, disappearing in a burst of gamma radiation.

 

 

 

Consistent
with Maxolhx fleet procedure when away from home territory, the ships that had
constituted Blockade Force Three arrived at the Elder wormhole several hours
before it was scheduled to emerge. A scouting squadron of frigates and destroyers
jumped in first, blasting the area with powerful active sensors, to locate and
identify any potentially hostile ships in the area. The wormhole was in
Thuranin territory and should have been safe, but recent events had the Maxolhx
less than confident about the loyalty of their clients, so the approach to and
transition through the wormhole was treated as if it were in enemy space.

When
the area was scanned and declared clear, a single frigate jumped back to the
main force, which consisted of one hundred and ninety-six warships, plus two
dozen support vessels. The area was clear, the frigate reported, and ships
began jumping by squadron, lining up to transition through once the wormhole
emerged and became stable.

Except
it didn’t.

Elder
wormholes operated like clockwork, with little variation. When the rip in
spacetime did not appear exactly on schedule, there was no alarm aboard the
waiting ships. That was not usual. Wormholes could often be a few seconds late,
never early, though no one knew why.

Curiosity
spread aboard the waiting ships when the wormhole was more than thirty seconds
late.

Curiosity
became concern at the one-minute mark.

Concern
turned to alarm shortly after, and when it became evident the wormhole would 
not

open, alarm verged on panic.

 

 

The
heavy cruiser 
Telaxion
 hung motionless in space, its powerful engines
sidelined as the commander of Blockade Force Three pondered what to do next.

After
the Elder wormhole failed to emerge at the first location, scouting squadrons
were dispatched to recon the next emergence sites along that wormhole’s ancient
and stable path.

The
wormhole did not appear at the next site along its figure-eight pattern.

Or
the next.

Or
the 
next
.

For
nineteen hours, ships chased the wormhole with increasing desperation, seeking
any sign that the wormhole had emerged there recently. Perhaps it was a timing
issue, and AIs aboard the ships checked and re-checked their records. The
records were correct, or at least were consistent across the over two hundred
ships in the force. The AIs then verified that their own internal clocks were
correct and again, no fault was found. The problem was not with the ships, the
fault was in the behavior of the wormhole.

If
that wormhole could not be found, the ships could turn around and make the long
journey to the next-closest wormhole. That 
other
 Elder
construct was known to be on schedule, for the courier ship had come through it
recently. Taking that roundabout course would add two weeks to the voyage back
to the home bases of the ships in the force, but they 
would
 get home.

The
Commander made a decision. She would take the majority of her ships home the
long way, while leaving two squadrons of light ships to continue investigating
the alarming behavior of the wormhole. The Blockade Force had come a long way
to find an explanation for why a single Elder wormhole had gone dormant, now
they had 
two
 wormholes inexplicably shut down.

Single
ships were sent out to recall the scouting squadrons, and preparation made for
which warships and support vessels would be left behind. Twenty-one hours after
the wormhole failed to appear at the first site, the second-to-last scouting
force appeared in a blaze of gamma rays, their engine radiators glowing hot
from a series of rapid jumps.

The
scout squadron leader had an astonishing development to report: 
the
 Elder wormhole was not only active and open, it was
operating 
exactly
 on schedule. The problem was, the entire figure-eight
pattern had shifted by a distance slightly less than light traveled in one
rotation of the Maxolhx homeworld!

Subsequent
scout squadrons confirmed the findings, even going through the wormhole and
coming back. The ancient spacetime rip was operating in a perfectly normal
schedule and pattern, except that it had somehow 
moved
 itself through
space without warning or explanation.

While
most of the over two hundred ships went through the relocated wormhole and
began jumping for their home bases, one squadron flew straight for the
homeworld of the Maxolhx Hegemony, carrying news that would shake the galaxy.

For
the first time in history, an Elder wormhole had changed its position.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY TWO

 

While
we waited for the eighteen days to pass, we, well, we pretty much did 
nothing
.
Thank God the gym was open, it saved our sanity. The crew spent a lot of time
there. We prepared special meals for each other. We played cards. We played 
Rumikub
. We played board games. We watched TV shows and
movies. We arranged two-on-two basketball games. And volleyball. Tennis.
Badminton. Some of the crew played chess, a game I skipped because I totally
suck at it. We did a lot together, and we spent a 
lot
 of time away from
each other.

Being
aboard a starship sounds glamorous and exciting, until you have been in a
windowless composite coffin for-
eh
-ver. After a while, being stuck in
the same place, seeing the same people, in close quarters, got on everyone’s
nerves. On my orders, we began staffing the bridge and CIC with one person each
for a duty shift. That change happened when, after I spent a shift as copilot
with Reed in the pilot couch, Nagatha contacted me while I was changing clothes
in my cabin. “Joseph, dear, I think Samantha Reed might be annoyed with you.”

That
made me pause while I pulled on a sock. “Really? What did I do to annoy her?”

“She
mentioned your breathing.”

“Oh.
Am I too loud?”

“It
is not the 
way
 you are 
breathing,
 it is 
that

you are breathing.”

“Oh.”

“Your
other fault is, as she described it, ‘existing’.”

“Shit.
OK, I get the message. We have been stuck aboard this ship with nothing to do,
for way too long. Eighteen days is a 
long
 time.”

“Yes,
Dear. Perhaps you should avoid her for a while.”

“Gotcha.”

 

On
the eighteenth day, after I’d gotten so desperate that I binge-watched the first
four episodes of ‘Cop Rock’, we-

What
is ‘Cop Rock’, you ask?

You
are 
not
 going to believe this.

It
was a police drama TV show. Nothing special about it. Except that, while
solving gruesome murders, the characters would suddenly start singing and
dancing. Kind of like a Bollywood action movie, that is Bollywood with a ‘B’, only
with weapons-grade 
suckitude
. The fact that anyone
thought that show was a good idea, proves Skippy’s theory that monkeys are
idiots.

Why
did I watch ‘Cop Rock’? That’s simple. I won a bet with Skippy.

As
the loser, 
he
 had to watch ‘The Star Wars Holiday Special’.

I
think he is still traumatized by that.

 

Anyway,
we got the ship ready, and counted down to the moment when the last of the four
microwormholes passed an imaginary line fifty-eight billion kilometers from the
ship.

“Ready?”
Skippy asked, though he had access to every system aboard the ship.

“Hey,”
I held up an index finger. “One question, please. You are sure you have the
correct authentication codes of another Elder AI?”

“They
should be accurate,” he answered gravely. “Many 
Bothans

died to bring us this information.”

“What?
Wait, who the hell is ‘
Manny 
Bothans
’
? He’s
not on the crew roster! Is-”

“
Ugh
.
Joe, you are such an idiot. Three, two, one, showtime!”

Skippy
called ‘Here, 
Senti
 
Senti
’
through one of the microwormholes.

No,
he did not actually do 
that
.

What
he did was pretend to be another, very hostile Elder AI. He sent out a ping,
challenging any AIs in the area, shouting all sorts of murderous things. What
we hoped to do was attract the attention of the Sentinel, even for a moment. The
thing was huge and powerful, but stretching its influence across fifty-eight
billion kilometers would weaken the spacetime warp that was causing our drive
to loop back on itself. That was our hope, anyway, we had no way to test it. If
we tried jumping and failed, the Sentinel very likely would squash the ship like
a bug.

The
good news was, if the ship was crushed, our deaths would be instant and
painless, so we had that going for us.

In
the pilot couch, Reed had a thumb jammed down on the button for jump option
Delta, with the ‘D’ meaning ‘Desperate’. We couldn’t wait for slow humans to
react, once Skippy determined the Sentinel had taken its focus away from us.

“It
is working?” I asked, unable to keep my big stupid mouth shut. “Hey, Skip-”

The
answer came in the form of a bad, nausea-inducing jump. No sooner had my
stomach finished doing flip-flops when Skippy squealed in panic. “
Gaaah
! It’s coming after us! Get us out of here! Jump
option Echo now 
now
 n-”

Reed
acted, not waiting for me. We jumped again.

And
again, the third time with a bit less urgency.

 

 

“As
this is your first encounter with the Rindhalu,” Illiath addressed the bridge
crew of her ship, the patrol cruiser 
Vortan
. “Remember this: shield generators
online and in reserve, but shields are 
off.
 Stealth generators inactive.
Sensor fields operating normally, but no active pings. Weapons guidance sensors
offline and powered down. All energy weapon capacitors discharged, not even
reserve power. Missiles disconnected from launch rails, and armor plating over
launch doors to be fully in place.” After allowing a reasonable amount of
barely-audible grumbling, she continued. “We will take no aggressive action,
nor will the enemy. Yes, remember that. They are not our 
guests,

they are the 
enemy
. In this case, it gives us an advantage to be nice to
them,” she showed her fangs. “Until it is time to 
not
 be nice.”

That
time, the murmuring was appreciative.

Illiath
sat back in her chair, feeling the webbing tighten around her automatically.
The enemy ships would arrive soon, the Rindhalu were always exactly on
schedule.

Meetings
between the two ancient enemies were always tightly-controlled, with the
actions of both sides complying with long-held practices to ensure no
surprises. There were six designated neutral meeting places scattered around
the galaxy, all uninhabited star systems that were not strategically important
to either side. As required by the Rindhalu, Illiath had brought her ship to
the designated meeting place that was closest to Bosphuraq territory. It was a
binary system of two very ordinary brown dwarf stars, both high enough in mass
to deplete their supply of lithium over time, and young enough that lithium was
still present in more than trace quantities. Neither star experienced iron rain
in their thin atmospheres, and therefore were not even of passing interest to
the crew of the patrol cruiser 
Vortan
.

As
the minutes counted down to the scheduled arrival of the Rindhalu, Illiath
considered her only previous meeting with the oldest intelligent species in the
galaxy. Much of what she learned in briefing materials had prepared her well
for meeting the Rindhalu face to face, but some aspects of the enemy had to be
experienced.

Most
species had, on their home planets, some type of multi-legged predator with a
hard exoskeleton, a predator that inspired instinctive fear and disgust. Even
the Jeraptha, who were covered in the leathery remains of an exoskeleton,
thought the Rindhalu were somewhat revolting and creepy.

Unlike
any other known intelligent species, the Rindhalu retained their hard
exoskeleton, though they had evolved an internal skeleton. When the Maxolhx
first met their older rivals, the Rindhalu had already bioengineered themselves
so the exoskeleton was thin but hard as diamond, and embedded with sensors that
projected outward like fine hairs. Those hairs moved independently, constantly
sampling the air around them, and flexing in the way of tiny tentacles. The
sensor hairs added an extra-revolting element of creepiness to an already
creepy species.

It
did not help that the Rindhalu also were large, the tops of their bodies a head
or two taller than the Maxolhx. During the extremely rare events when a
Rindhalu came aboard a Maxolhx ship, they made a point of ducking down when
going through doorways, even though there was plenty of clearance.

The
Rindhalu were big. They were ugly. And they smelled bad. The air around a
Rindhalu carried an acrid tang of woodsmoke and 
sulphur
.
The woodsmoke was not the pleasant, homey aroma of a campfire. This smell was
that of rotted wood mixed in with something too wet to fully burn. Plus the
reek of 
sulphur
.

Rindhalu
did not 
stink
, the smell did not make the eyes of 
other

species water and sting. It was more of a vague presence, something other beings
became aware of after a while. The faint stench was never enough to make anyone
gag, and the saturation of scent particles in the air did not appear to
increase with the number of Rindhalu in a confined space. Many aliens who
encountered the Rindhalu speculated that those creepy beings created the smell
deliberately, to distract those they encountered and thus gain an advantage.

Illiath
had never smelled an actual spider, a fact for which she was grateful. During
encounters with their ancient enemy, Maxolhx edited their olfactory senses to
ignore the particular scent particles emitted by the Rindhalu, so if the
spiders were doing it on purpose, it was really a silly game. In training,
Illiath had been subjected to a very accurate representation of the smell, and
it 
was
 distracting. Unlike many unpleasant scents, a person did not go
‘nose-blind’ after a while. The opposite occurred, where the person grew 
more

aware of the stench over time, and that was the worst part of it.

“Commander?”
Subcaptain Turnell pinged for Illiath’s attention, though both were kept aware
of the time by their internal chronometers.

“Steady,
Subcaptain.” And then, after hours of tense waiting, the enemy ship was 
there
.
The Rindhalu warship popped into existence with a subtle flare of gamma rays
that was detectable only when those photons crashed into stray atoms of the
local solar wind. Such ships had the ability to direct most of the gamma rays
back into the jump wormhole, so that instead of appearing to emerge from a
visually-disturbing rip in spacetime, the ships were suddenly just 
there
.
Rindhalu technology also recovered much quicker from the distortion effect of
transition through a wormhole, or they had a way of isolating themselves from
the distortion in a way that Maxolhx science could only guess at. In fact, the
Rindhalu were rumored to have an ability for their ships to emerge from a jump
fully cloaked in a stealth field, so the existence of such a ship could only be
inferred by its effect on nearby particles. That ability was only a rumor, for
no Maxolhx ship had survived to confirm their enemy possessed such troubling
technology.

Illiath’s
ears twitched with irritation. There was no reason for the enemy to appear so
dramatically, they were clearly showing off. Watch us casually do something you
can only dream 
of,
 the spiders were saying.

“I
see you,” Illiath muttered under her breath.

“Commander?”
Turnell’s ears turned to listen.

“Nothing,”
Illiath reprimanded herself for not paying attention, she hadn’t meant for
anyone to hear her speak. I see you 
now
, she told herself. If my ship’s
weapons were hot, this would be a very short battle.

Or
perhaps not.
  
The enemy vessel was a
battlecruiser, or perhaps a fast battleship, intelligence on the subject was
thin and inconclusive. For certain, the hulking ship, with five times the mass
of the patrol cruiser 
Vortan
, was not merely a slow gun platform. It was
a sleek arrowhead shape, a wedge with a flattened aft end. From the top and
bottom sprouted long, sickle-shaped curving antennas which gave the Rindhalu a
tactical advantage in combat. While the Maxolhx had only vague guesses about how
they worked, the antennas could create a local effect to cancel a damping
field, allowing Rindhalu ships to jump away even when trapped in a damping
effect. Maxolhx tactics called for ships to rapidly close with the enemy to
increase the strength of the damping, and multiple ships should target one of
the 
enemy
. The current theory was that the antennas
created a very local area of especially flat spacetime, but the effect was 
so

localized, it could not be verified.

No
matter. The 
Vortan
 had no intention of trying to trap the enemy ship in
a damping field, or to commit any hostile act. A fight of a lightly-armed and
armored patrol cruiser, against a battlecruiser, would be short and one-sided.
If Illiath had fired immediately, before the enemy’s defense shields regained
full strength, her ship might have had a chance to do serious damage. That
brief window of opportunity had closed, and she did not regret allowing her
common sense and discipline to override her natural instinct to attack.

 

Without
incident, the two ships flew to their designated rendezvous positions, and a
dropship detached from the Rindhalu ship. The actual first encounter in one of
the 
Vortan’s
 docking bays was disappointingly uneventful, the spiders
were not interested in either ceremony or the ship. After exchanging strained
and formal greetings, the spiders stated they wished to get right to work, so
they were escorted into a large compartment set aside as a conference space. While
the individual scientists on both sides exchanged cautious, bland greetings and
began establishing the basic facts, Illiath set up a subroutine to monitor the
discussion, while her higher level of consciousness focused on observing the
enemy. She was trying to determine whether the data downloaded from the fleet’s
central database was accurate about the Rindhalu. So far, the ancient enemy of
her people were politely bland, though of course they had been selected to be suitable
for a first encounter. She knew the spiders were observing her, as she observed
them. 

In
the midst of reviewing a preliminary analysis of body language exhibited by the
Rindhalu, her monitoring subroutine alerted her to something interesting.
Running the audio back in her mind, she instantly understood why the monitor
had flagged that part of the discussion. “Excuse me,” she spoke, a bit louder
than the other voices. “Kashelob, you are 
not
 surprised that quantum
interchangers can be reused?”

The
creepy head turned slowly in her direction, and the being spoke with that
infuriatingly slow manner. “That is not,” the spider paused. Just when Illiath
though the spider had finished talking, it continued. “Exactly what I said.”

Patience,
she counselled herself. She knew the enemy was observing her speech pattern and
body language, just as she sought clues from the nonverbal cues of the enemy.
“The possibility was not,” she tried asking the question in a different way.
“Entirely new to you?”

“No.”
The spider’s head moved to stare directly at her, and it spoke quicker, almost
normally. Though the alien being was female, there were only subtle differences
between genders of the Rindhalu, they were both creepy and repulsive. “We have
long explored theories of how the devices you call ‘interchangers’ could be
repurposed; wiped blank and assigned new relationships.” She looked at her two
fellows, and they were silent for a moment, as they exchanged information via
an encryption scheme the Maxolhx could not crack. “I am authorized to tell you
that to date, none of our experiments have succeeded in reusing an 
interchanger
. All of our attempts to break an assignment,
to wipe a unit clean, have resulted in their destruction. Based on our current
theories, it 
should
 be possible,” the spider added. 

The
Rindhalu had just casually admitted that not only were they intimately familiar
with one of the most sensitive technologies possessed by the Maxolhx, they
understood the theoretical basis of the underlying science better than the
Maxolhx did! Firmly pushing her shocked reaction to the back of her mind for later
perusal, Illiath focused on the present. “It was our belief that your people do
not use quantum interchangers?”

“We
do not,” Kashelob said. “Such crude and cumbersome security measures are of no
interest to us, except that 
you
 utilize interchangers.” The spider’s
mandibles curved in what might have been a smile. “Commander Illiath, my people
authorized me to reveal our knowledge to you, for the purpose of impressing
upon you our sincerity in pursuing a joint investigation of the ‘ghost ship’
incidents. Someone has secretly developed technology beyond that of our people.
We are 
both
 threatened by these incidents, and my people are gravely
alarmed.”

Of
course you would say that, Illiath thought to herself. You are not-

The
spider interrupted her musings. “You are concerned that our true purpose in
joining the effort to investigate and capture the ghost ship, is to ensure we will
gain access to this new and frighteningly advanced technology. Of course that
is true,” Kashelob admitted. “We also seek to ensure 
you
 do not obtain
technology that could threaten 
us
.”

“Very
well,” Illiath concluded. She transferred a file to the spiders. “For our 
joint

investigation, we propose to-”

“
We

propose,” Kashelob said in a raised voice. “To commence by going to the world
your people call ‘Rakesh Diwalen’.”

Illiath
was caught off guard. The spiders never interrupted anyone, they spoke too slowly
to get a word in, unless the speaker paused deliberately. Were the spiders
making an extra effort, or was their normal slow speech just an act? Also, why
go to Rakesh Diwalen? A quick ping of the ship’s archives informed her that was
a Kristang planet, an isolated world of no importance. Except- The Maxolhx had
heard that their Thuranin clients were in the process of purchasing human
slaves there from the Kristang, for the purpose of developing bioweapons to be
used against the Alien Legion.

Humans
. Why did those primitive aliens
continue to cause trouble, far beyond what their numbers or technology would
indicate?

A
deeper search of the archives revealed no reason why the Rindhalu would have
any desire to travel to Rakesh. Her suspicious mind sought out potential flight
plans to that world. Could the Rindhalu be lying? Did any place of actual
importance lay along the route to the truly unimportant Kristang planet? Were
the Rindhalu only using Rakesh as an excuse to fly deep into Maxolhx territory?

No.
There were no sensitive facilities along that route. The potential flight paths
did not even require travel to a wormhole cluster, where the spider ship might
break away to fly a different path.

She
did not know why the spiders had proposed going there, so she had to swallow
her pride and ask the question. Lying to save face, she said “That world is, of
course, on our 
secondary
 set of targets for investigation. What is your
specific interest there?”

The
spiders looked at each other slowly. The system that interpreted facial
expressions and body language told Illiath that the aliens were pleased.
Mirthful, even. They knew she was lying, that she had no idea why Rakesh could
be of any interest.

“Ah,”
Kashelob finally said. “Apparently, you have not yet heard.” The being made no
attempt to hide its smugness at knowing something Illiath did not. “That is
interesting. Ah, of course. Your usual method of communication has been 
disrupted,
 signal traffic is delayed. Commander, what you do
not know is that the ghost ship has been sighted at Rakesh Diwalen, sighted by
Thuranin ships.”

Illiath
did attempt to hide her surprise, knowing it was likely futile. “This must be a
recent development,” she said, stalling for time while she thought. 
How

did the Rindhalu have information that had not reached her ship? The spiders
did not care that they had just revealed an ability to tap into message traffic
of the rival coalition. They 
wanted
 Illiath to know that the spiders
could read any message they wanted to. “The ghost ship will have fled the area
by now. This force is not equipped, or intended, to hunt that ship.”

“We
are not interested in chasing the ghost ship,” the lead spider still had that
infuriatingly smug ‘I am smarter than you’ expression on her hideous face. “We
wish to investigate other matters at that location. Before the ghost ship was
sighted, a 
human
 force raided that planet, to recover human captives.
There is no connection between humans and the ghost ship, yet,” he paused. “We
do not believe in coincidences.”

“Nor
do we,” Illiath replied without thinking. Her superiors had given her broad
authority to set the agenda for the joint investigation. “Surely you cannot
believe that 
humans
 are involved in activities of the ghost ship?”

“No.
We are, however, curious about why the 
ghost ship
 was interested in the
human raid on that world. If the ghost ship crew is seeking opportunities to
further weaken your coalition, then 
that
,” the spider actually attempted
to 
smile
. “Is something we want to know about.”

 

 

“The
Sentinel is gone?” I asked, kicking myself for speaking too soon. It’s like
when someone is throwing a non-hitter in baseball, you never 
say
 it out
loud, or you could blow it for them.

“Yes,
Joe, I think so. Sorry, I meant yes. 
Yes
, it’s gone. It worked! We got away.

Wow
. 
Whee-oooh
,” Skippy exhaled with relief. “We
sure dodged a bullet there, didn’t we? Well, I’m glad 
that
 is over. The
next site on the list is-”

“Nuh
uh,” I cut him off. “No way. 
After
 you check every system aboard the
ship, we are going straight back to Club Skippy.”

“What?”
he whined. “
But,
 we haven’t finished-”

“Yes,
we have,” I declared, still amped up from our escape. “You verified your
memories of the battle at Waterloo, that’s good enough for me.”

“That’s
not enough, Joe,” he pleaded. “How about we compromise?”

“Sure,
if the compromise 
is
 we fly straight back to Club
Skippy, and you give up on poking your nose into dark, scary places.”

“But-”

“Seriously,
what is 
wrong 
with you? How many horror movies do you need to watch,
before you realize that it’s not a good idea to go down into the dark basement
when the serial killer is chasing you?”

“Um,
well, that is a bad analogy, Joe.”

“How
do you figure that?”

“Because
in horror movies, the actors 
always
 go into the basement. Therefore, in
the imaginary world of horror movies, there must not be any horror movies to
show them what 
not
 to do.”

“That
is not- Huh.”

“Right?”

“I
never thought of that. It,” I shook my head so he wouldn’t get me off the
subject. “It doesn’t matter.”

“How
about a 
real
 compromise? Can we go someplace we know is safe?”

“No,”
was my automatic reaction, before I realized I was being unfair. “Wait, what
place do we know is safe?”

“Newark.”

“
Newark
?”
That was about the last place I expected him to mention. “That is,” I pulled
out my tablet. “Not on your list.”

“It’s
on my list 
now
, since you are being such a ninny.”

“What
could we accomplish by going back there?”

“I
would rather go to Paradise, to examine the wreckage of the ship that brought
me there, but that site is too hot. At Newark, I am hoping to verify details of
the battle I was involved in. Those are some of my fuzziest memories, I had
already been attacked by the computer worm and my matrix was corrupted.”

“OK,
I understand how that is important to you. What is the benefit to us? If your
memories are fuzzy, is there anything for you to verify?”

“Not
much,” he sighed. “Can I ask this as a favor, Joe?”

He
had a lot of nerve asking me for a freakin’ 
favor
. On the other hand, we
owed him, big-time. “Can I think about it?”

“Oh,
sure,” his mood brightened immediately. “Take all the time you want. Until we
go through the next two wormholes. Then you’ll need to make a decision.”

 

“
Heeeeeey
, Joe,” he called me, like, ten minutes later. I
was in my office, while Reed took a shift in the command chair. “Have you made
a decision about Newark yet?”

“No.
We have two wormholes to transit, before I need to do that.”

“Yeah,

but,
 the suspense is killing me. Can you tell me now,
huh? Can you?”

“No,
damn it! How about this: can you guarantee there is not a Sentinel at Newark?”

“Absolutely.”

“Good.
Then-”

“Unless
there is, of course.”

“Skippy,
you are the 
worst 
at-”

“There
should not be a Sentinel in the area. I have already been there, I created
microwormholes there. If there was a Sentinel in that system, it certainly
would have detected the resonance signature of those little wormholes. That is
like holding up a big ‘Elder Technology 
In
 Use Here’
sign. We did not encounter a Sentinel at Newark, ergo no Sentinel is there.”

“
Ergo
?”

“It
means-”

“I
know what it means, you ass.”

“Also,
I have no memory of a Sentinel being involved in the battle I fought there. If
a Sentinel had been nearby, it certainly would have become involved.”

“OK,
your logic is good. Why did you 
say
 ‘Unless there
is’?”

“Because
I was trying to be completely honest with you. My instinctive honesty is one of
my few flaws.”

“Uh,
I may have a different opinion about these flaws you-”

“Mostly,
I said that because clearly, a Sentinel must have been there at one point. A
habitable planet was thrown out of orbit. 
That 
is the work of a Sentinel.
Ah, there is a possibility that it could have been caused by Elder weapons
operating independently, but that is extremely unlikely. 
That
 is
something I would have remembered.”

“Why
didn’t the Sentinel just blow up the star, cause a flare that cooked the planet?”

“I
don’t know for sure, Joe. It could be that something in that area of space was
too important to risk damaging. It could be the AI who gave orders to the
Sentinel was conducting an experiment. But my guess is, that AI wished to
exterminate the native intelligent species with a minimum of energy expended.
By that point, there was already debate within the AI community on whether it
was truly necessary to exterminate all intelligent life. Newark could have been
an attempt at a compromise; kill the intelligent species without wiping out 
all

life on that world. It could also have been an attempt to act quietly, so the
AIs who were growing uncomfortable with our orders did not notice what happened
at Newark, until it was too late. Joe, I have a vague memory of flying there in
my ship at very high speed, and immediately going into battle. That is about 
all

I remember, damn it.”

“I
understand. I’ll think about it.”

“But-”

“I 
said
,
I’ll think about it. Nagging me won’t help your cause.”

 

Of
course, I approved a flyby of Newark. It only added one day to our flight time.
It was important to Skippy to remember what happened to him there. It was
important for 
us
 for Skippy to remember how he defeated and destroyed an
Elder AI, though he was badly damaged in the fight. If we ever had to fight
another AI like Skippy, it would be good to know which tactics worked and which
didn’t.

And,
to be honest, I wanted to see Newark again. Unlike Skippy, I had fond memories
of that world. My experience there was not fun at the time, it only seems like
fun now.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY THREE

 

We
jumped in a light-hour from the planet, checking the area to assure there
weren’t other ships in the system. Part of me hoped there was a Kristang ship in
orbit, taking out my frustrations on a low-tech starship would have felt good.
Fortunately, the system was empty, there weren’t any signs of anyone on the
surface, and the two small satellites in orbit were running on low power, plus
a dormant one that we hadn’t seen from far away. Skippy hacked into all three
satellites to download their data, and erase any record they had of our
presence.

“What
do you see, Skippy?” I asked.

“A
whole lot of 
nothin
’, Joe,” he sighed. “According to
the satellites, there is no sign that anyone has been to this ball of mud since
we left.”

“Huh.
I’m surprised the lizards didn’t send a follow-up mission.”

“They
might have wanted to, but, you know, then some jackass sparked a civil war,” he
chuckled. “And now they all have better things to do.”

“Yeah,
like killing each other. No sign that any lizards went poking around the caves
we lived in down there?”

“Nope.
Joe, I think you were the last person to have boots on that rock.”

“Cool.
Uh, I hope that doesn’t mean I’m responsible for paying the property tax bill.”

“Ha!
If you are, I can guarantee the tax office 
will
 find you.”

“Hey,”
I gave up screwing with the sensor controls. “Can we find the 
Barneywego
?”

“That
RV you took on a fun-filled family road trip?”

“That’s
the one.”

“Um,
it’s here,” he zoomed in the display to a river winding its way through
desolate tundra. Snow covered the ground and chunks of ice were piled up on the
riverbanks. “And 
here
,” the view moved downstream.

“It’s
in two pieces?”

“Yes.
Probably it broke in half during a Spring flood. Remember, Joe, it is in a
river because you 
sank
 it.”

“I do
remember that.”

“Joe,

you
 are the reason we can’t have nice things,” he sniffed.

“Sorry,”
I mumbled. “Can you enhance the view?”

There
is was. The front half of our RV, or ‘caravan’ as Smythe had called it. That
trusty vehicle had taken us most of the way to the Kristang scavenger camp,
until, as Skippy said, it sank while we were crossing a river.

That
mission had been a complete success. It was my first time cooking up a
complicated operation that involved deception, something that had sort of
become my trademark. Newark was the first time I really felt like a commander,
rather than a sergeant role-playing way out of my league. I vividly remember
how, after we killed the last Kristang, Smythe had stood up and saluted me. He
had been astonished that my horribly complicated scheme had worked. Truthfully,
that had surprised the hell out of me too.

At
the time, I had been hungry, tired, cold, wet and scared out of my mind.

Looking
back now, that seems like good times.

“Thanks,
Skippy.”

“You’re
not thinking of doing anything silly, like flying down there to pick up souvenirs,
are you?”

“Uh,
that would be a 
NO
. The trinket we picked up contained a computer worm
that nearly killed you. I do 
not
 want any more surprises like that.”

“Me
neither,” his avatar shuddered. “OK, I’m starting my scan. This will take a
while.”

 

Unlike
most things Skippy does, his scan took less time than he estimated. “Ah, that’s
it. I won’t get any more useful info out of this place. We can jump for Club
Skippy, Joe, I’m done here.”

“We
should recover the probes before we jump,” I said to Reed. “We might need them
later.” It was becoming painfully obvious that, while we had two starships and
a collection of spare parts, our resources were limited. “What do you think?”

Reed
checked her console. “It will take ninety-seven minutes to recover all three
probes.”

“Do
it. All right, Skippy, don’t keep us in suspense. What did you find?”

“A
whole lot of 
nothin
’,” he said disgustedly. “It has
been too long, there are only echoes left here. My guess was right; a Sentinel 
was

here before the battle, but was not involved in the actual combat. There isn’t
any sign of a Sentinel here now, either, or I would have told you right away.”

“Were
you able to determine how you killed the other AI?”

“Sort
of. We can review the tactical data later. It is not something I want to brag 
about,
 I did not kick ass in that battle. From what I can
see, and what little I remember, my ship was very badly damaged. By the end of
the battle, I had gone into hibernation to recover from the worm’s attack.”

“So,
why did you choose Paradise as a destination?”

“I
didn’t. That was the ship’s decision. Joe, the real question is how the ship
got to Paradise from Newark. It’s a miracle the thing was able to move at all. The
ship didn’t get any help from me, it did it all by itself. Damn it, I will
never know how I got to Paradise, or why I was there. Six other star systems
were closer to Newark.”

“Maybe
that was the point. The ship knew you needed to hide, right? It chose a place
that was less obvious.”

“Maybe.”

“Do
you miss that ship?”

“No.
Not really. It was just a 
machine,
 it didn’t have any
sort of personality. It’s not like Nagatha.”

“Oh,
Skippy,” Nagatha gushed. “I am 
so
 happy to hear that you would miss me,
if I were gone.”

“I
did 
not
 say that!”

“You
kind of did,” I teased him.

“Ugh.
You asked if I miss my old ship? The answer is 
no
. I wish that damned
thing had dropped me into a freakin’ 
star
. ”

 

About
two hours later, we jumped away. Part of me regretted not going down to the
surface again, to see the caverns where we had taken shelter. Another part of
me was disgusted by the idea of disturbing the final resting place of the
planet’s former inhabitants, just for a nostalgia trip. Reed took a shift in
the command chair, while I went to the gym.

“Hey,
Joe,” Skippy spoke into my earpiece as I was halfway down the passageway. “You
got a minute?”

“Sure.”
Slapping the door control, I stepped into an empty cabin. Whatever he wanted to
talk about, he probably wanted to talk in private. I sat down on the bunk.
“What’s up?”

“I
realized something important, after analyzing the data. Something disturbing.
This could be a major problem, Joe. You need to know.”

“Shit.
What is it?” I asked, my over-active mind racing through apocalyptic scenarios.

“I
think I discovered how I killed the AI at Newark, and how I escaped.”

“Wow,”
I said cautiously. None of that sounded like a problem to me. “Uh, isn’t that 
good

news?”

“It’s
good that I know. It is not good 
what
 I know.”

“Gotcha.
Go ahead.”

“Joe,
I did not kill that AI. It 
gave up
.”

“What?
You, you mean it saw the light, regretted what it did?”

“Fuck
no,” Skippy spat with anger. “That miserable thing was hateful right to the
end. Listen, I did have it on the ropes. Very likely, I would have killed it
anyway, but my ship would have been destroyed during the final phase of the battle.
That AI 
saved
 me. We both might have been killed, because with the worm
attacking me at the same time, it was a very close fight. Instead of us
fighting to the death, it simply 
gave up
. That is,” his avatar shuddered.
“The only reason I am alive now. The reason my ship was able to carry me to
Paradise. The other AI suddenly stopped defending itself and allowed me to kill
it.”

“Holy
shit.”

“Yeah.
Now you see why I wanted to talk about this in private. Joe, listen, you seriously
are a knucklehead, but you are the only person I can talk to about stuff like
this.”

“Uh,
thank you?”

“Sorry.
I actually meant that as a compliment. Joe, you 
get
 me. With you, our
friendship is unconditional.”

Now
he was pissing me off. “So, I’m your pet dog?”

“No.

Ugh
. I suck at expressing myself. You know me, you know that I am, as
you say, an arrogant shithead, but you are my friend anyway. Simms tolerates
me, because I am useful. Chang treats me like a fancy smartphone. Smythe thinks
I am 
annoying,
 he barely tolerates me. But you? You 
like

me.”

“Don’t
push it, Skippy.”

“I’m
trying not to. How about this: you are the only person I trust to tell my
deepest, darkest secrets. Remember back when I worried that I was one of the
bad AIs, like the one who committed genocide on Newark? I wanted to run away
and hide, somewhere I couldn’t harm anyone. You assured me that couldn’t be
true. I trusted your judgment then, like I am trusting your judgment now.”

“Hmm.
Does that mean you will listen to me from now on?”

“Let’s
not go crazy, Joe,” he said quickly. “You are still a numbskull most of the
time.”

“We’ll
take it one step at a time, then. Hey, whatever it is that happened with that
AI you killed, you are worried about it?”

“Yes,
of course. Do you understand why?”

“Maybe?
You think that AI only let you go, because it somehow thought allowing you to
live would help its allies in the war?”

“Exactly.
Joe, I must have something buried inside me that could betray me and everything
I care about!” he threw his hands in the air. “Crap! I might be a freakin’ time
bomb, and there’s nothing I can do about it. This drives me 
crazy
!”

“Ayuh.”

He froze,
staring at me with his mouth open. “
Ayuh
?! Is that all you-”

“That

is
 possible, Skippy. The time-bomb thing.”

He
scowled at me. “You are being less comforting than you 
th
-”

“Like
I said, that is possible. There 
are
 other possibilities.”

He
cocked his head at me, the oversized hat bobbing to one side. “Like what?”

“Like,
it only 
pretended
 to surrender, to fool you into halting your attack. If
so, that didn’t work, because you didn’t stop. Or, it assumed the worm would
kill you anyway. Or, it didn’t give up, it just couldn’t fight anymore. There could
be 
lots
 of other reasons.”

“Huh.
Hmm.”

While
he thought about what I said, I also thought about what I said. Sure, there
could be many reasons why a hostile AI had not fought Skippy to the death. The
most likely reason is the one he feared; that the evil AI at Newark had known
it was going to die, and it decided that allowing Skippy to escape was the best
way to achieve its own goals. The only way that made sense is if somehow Skippy
being alive helped the other side in the AI war.

Shit.

Someday,
a program hidden inside him might trigger, and turn him into a killing machine,
against his will.

Awful
as 
that
 possibility was, there was another thought that sent a chill up
my spine.

The
Merry Band of Pirates had been lucky during the years since I met Skippy.

But
we also had a lot of bad shit happen. Every time I thought we had accomplished
the impossible once again and Earth was safe, something blew up in our faces.

Shit.

Had
Skippy unconsciously been working against us all the time?

Something
 had caused aliens to give Earth far
more attention than our primitive little planet deserved. Sure, if aliens knew
about how humans were flying around the galaxy in stolen starships, screwing
with wormholes and blaming the chaos on others, then aliens would
understandably want to investigate what the hell was happening on Earth.

But,
 they 
didn’t
 know humans were flying around the galaxy.

Yet,
a whole lot of aliens wanted to fly all the way to Earth, when they had more
important things to do.

Crap.

Was
I just being paranoid?

We
knew the Kristang had wanted to travel to Earth because White Wind clan leaders
were there. Or, we thought that was the reason. Could there be another-

No.
That 
was
 being paranoid. After we sparked a civil war between clans, the
lizards had not shown any interest in going to our homeworld.

And
the Maxolhx only had interest in the Gateway wormhole near Earth, not in our
little planet itself.

Unless
I was wrong about that.

Several
times, we had given hostile aliens very good reasons not to pay any attention
to Earth, but they persisted in making the long journey anyway.

Crap.

If
something inside Skippy was making him betray us, we were absolutely 
screwed
.

Anything
we did to fix the problem might only make it worse. What could we-

“Joe!”

“Huh,
what?”

“Were
you listening to me at all?”

“No,”
I had to be honest with him. “Sorry, I was kind of lost in thought there.”

“You
said there could be many reasons why the AI at Newark allowed me to escape. Is
that what you really think, or is that just a line of bullshit to make me feel better?”

“It’s
true,” I said, leaving out the fact that it wasn’t the 
whole
 truth.
“That AI is dead, we can’t know its motivations. How good are your memories of
the battle? Wait, I asked the wrong question. How detailed is your sensor data
from back then?”

“It
depends. There was a 
lot
 of energy flying around, and we were both
jamming each other’s sensors. What do you want to know?”

“Can
you tell how badly damaged the thing was, when it stopped fighting?”

“Hmm.
We were both pretty beat up. I mean, I survived, but I had to go into a sort of
self-induced coma to repair the damage. Why does that matter?”

“Because,
if it stopped fighting because it 
couldn’t
 fight anymore, that explains
what happened, and we can forget about it. You 
beat
 it. If that is true,
maybe you get a belt as the AI heavyweight champion of the galaxy,” I added to
cheer him up. And distract him from what I was really thinking.

“Ah,
thanks, Joe. 
But,
 I don’t have enough info to say
whether that AI was near death when it stopped fighting. I didn’t know at the
time, and looking at the data now, there is no way to tell. Nice idea, though.”

“OK,
well, how about this? Do you have a way to check inside yourself for malicious
code?”

“I
thought I did, but clearly, there are parts of my matrix that are not
accessible.”

“Uh,

still
? Your memories were blocked, but now you remember everything. Are
you saying there is 
more
 shit inside 
your
 can
that you can’t see into?”

“Yes.
And I do not remember 
everything
. Not yet. I am still piecing some
things together. Some of what is missing might not have been blocked, it might
be just 
gone
. I was badly damaged, Joe. When I optimized my matrix after
the Roach Motel, I was shocked to see how much of my internal workings were
patched together and bypassed. Shit. There is no way for me to tell whether I
have a time bomb buried inside me.”

“I
don’t know about that, Skippy. Maybe all that AI did was block your memories.”

“Um,
maybe. It goes deeper than that. The memory block is probably an aftereffect of
my battle with the first computer worm. Joe, we could talk about this all day
without accomplishing anything. I could be a danger to the entire galaxy. What
should I do?”

“Keep
fighting. Remember who you are. Remember who your friends are. Remember that
you 
have
 friends.”

“OK.”
He took a breath. “OK, yeah. I can 
do
 this,” he said, like an athlete
pumping himself up. “Promise me one thing?”

“What?”

“If
you see any sign that I am doing anything evil, tell me right away.”

“Like,
if you try to sing opera on Karaoke night?”

“That
is my gift to humanity, knucklehead.”

“Right.
It only 
feels
 like punishment.”

“Uncultured
cretin.”

“Asshole.”

“Joe,
the next time I ask 
your
 for advice, how about you
remind me that I am talking to a filthy monkey?”

“I
love you too, man.”

“Ugh.
I’m gonna 
hurl
.”

 

 

Our
arrival at Club Skippy required two jumps. First, the 
Flying Dutchman

emerged a light-minute away from that world, transmitting our identification
code so the crew aboard 
Valkyrie
 didn’t panic and go to battle stations.
Once 
Valkyrie
 responded, and Nagatha said ‘hello’ to Bilby, we jumped
into orbit a mere two hundred kilometers above the camp, to make a dramatic
entrance.

Simms
contacted me immediately, she was aboard 
Valkyrie
 while Chang was on the
ground. “This is a pleasant surprise. You are back three days early,” She
observed with a smile. “Can we assume it was a successful mission, Sir?”

“Yes,”
I fibbed. “Skippy was able to verify key elements of his memories.” I skipped
mentioning that he also found things that contradicted his memories.

“How
many sites did you visit?”

“Uh,
well, three.”

“Only

three
?” Her smile faded a notch. “You were gone a long time, Sir. Did you
hit the motherlode at one of the sites?”

“Not
exactly.”

“We
found a 
Sentinel
!” Skippy blurted out like a toddler with
impulse-control issues.

“You
found- Oh my God.” Her smile was gone. I assumed her smile 
was
gone,
 I really couldn’t see because she had her hands over her mouth.
“One like in the Roach Motel?”

“Nope,”
Skippy continued cluelessly. “This one was alive. Nasty thing, too. We barely
escaped with our lives. Fortunately, my awesomeness is more than a match for-”

“Skippy!”
I snapped at him. “For the love of God. Shut. 
Up
.”

“But-”

“UH!”
It was my turn to shush him. “
I 
will tell the story. We-”

Simms
interrupted me. “Sir, I would rather hear it from Skippy, or Nagatha. Skippy
will be too busy bragging about himself to spin the story however you want, and
Nagatha won’t lie to me.”

“Simms,”
I placed a hand over my heart. “I am deeply hurt.”

“If
you remember, Sir, taking the 
Dutchman
 out so Skippy can stroll down
Memory Lane was 
your
 idea. I advised against it.”

“OK,
so we did encounter a Sentinel,” I admitted. “Look on the bright side: now we
know how to escape, if we encounter another of-”

“Meh,
that’s not really true, Joe,” Skippy said, because he 
cannot
 keep his STUPID
FREAKIN’ MOUTH SHUT. “The Sentinel at Waterloo was damaged, and so is not
typical of such machines we might encounter in the future. Which is a damned
good thing, because I really thought that was the end for us. Plus, it was a
unique situation. I very much doubt other Sentinels have prepared the
underlying structure of local spacetime to loop jump wormholes back on
themselves. Nope, I hate to say this, but there aren’t any useful lessons to be
learned from that incident.”

“How
about,” Simms asked, “we learn not to take unnecessary risks?”

“Hmm,
that’s a good one,” Skippy muttered. “Let me write that down.”

“Simms!”
I barked just as she opened her mouth. “You can read the full report later. We
are here now, nobody got hurt, and we accomplished the mission under conditions
that were difficult and unexpected.”

“Unexpected?”
She arched an eyebrow. “Certainly, 
no one
 could have foreseen that you
might run into danger, because that 
never
 happens out here.”

“Simms,
you are like a dog with a bone. You’re never going to let this go?”

“I
don’t plan to, no.” She took a breath. “You 
are
 here, that’s good. Did
verifying Skippy’s memories give us a way to find hibernating AIs?”

“Not
yet,” Skippy replied. “It’s more about the journey than the destination.”

Another
arched eyebrow from Simms. She didn’t need to say anything.

“Hey,”
I cleared my throat nervously. “We visited Newark on the way back.”

She
looked pained. “Please tell me you didn’t go down to pick up souvenirs.”

“No,
we did not. It looks like nobody has been there since we left. Skippy was able
to verify that is the site of the battle where he was damaged. He doesn’t know
why his ship took him to Paradise from there. Enough about me. What’s the
situation on the surface?”

“The
civilians have settled in well, after a few issues. We planted a test garden
near the camp, that was a mistake. The former prisoners thought we expected
them to grow their own food, they worried we were leaving them on Club Skippy.
We tore up the garden and laid out that ground as a football pitch, sorry, a
soccer field. Morale improved after that. Chang and I have been talking about
this place.”

“What
about it?”

“Sir,
in many ways, this world is a better fit than Avalon. It is a shorter trip from
Earth, and the biosphere is more advanced. The science team told me that on
Avalon, they are very concerned about microorganisms, plants and animals from
Earth upsetting the ecosystem there. We could have a runaway reaction, with
fungus and other nasties spreading all over, and overwhelming the native
biosphere. Oxygen levels could crash, and-” She knew that explaining science to
me was not easy. “Anyway, Club Skippy is a better short-term candidate. Sort of
a ‘Charlie’ site.”

“Short-term
is right,” I shook my head. “I hear you and I agree, this place could be a good
backup to our backup plan. But the next time there is a wormhole shift, aliens
could be crawling all over this world. I’ll keep it in mind, though. If
Skippy’s wormhole shortcut to the Sculptor galaxy doesn’t work, we might need
this place as a staging area.”

“What’s
next, Sir?”

“I’d
like to give this crew, and myself, some shore leave. We were stuck inside the
ship with absolutely nothing to do for almost three weeks, while we dealt with
the Sentinel. All of us sort of got irritated with each other.”

“Shore
leave sounds like a good idea. Chang would probably be happy to relieve you
aboard the 
Dutchman
, he has been acting as mayor of the little town down
there, I think he is sick of hearing everyone’s complaints.”

“How
about I stay up here, and 
you
 fly down to be mayor of 
Complainerville
?”

“Sir,”
she winked. “I would never deny you an opportunity for shore leave.”

 

 

Being
mayor of 
Complainerville
 was not a bad gig, compared
to, say, having all my teeth removed with a pair of rusty pliers.

I
am joking. It really wasn’t bad. Actually, it was kind of fun.

In
fact, it was about the most fun I had in, well, a 
very
 long time.

Above
our heads, both ships were undergoing a maintenance cycle. Supplies were being
cross-decked between ships, moving a bunch of cargo over to 
Valkyrie
.
Since we left Rikers behind, we had learned the civilians needed more space for
recreation, so Simms was emptying several bays for use as playgrounds, media
rooms, etc. After consulting with Smythe and Fabron, I decided to split the infantry
teams. Most of the STARs and Commandos would be aboard 
Valkyrie
, and we
would rotate people back and forth to maintain a small presence on the 
Dutchman
.
While I enjoyed shore leave, the 
Dutchman’s
 interior was being scrubbed
clean and being made ready for passengers to 
reboard
.
The habitation and recreation sections of the ship had their surface coatings
retuned to bright, cheery colors. Children would be able to change the colors
of their cabins, even make designs and drawings. Nagatha cautioned that the
drab colors of the surface coatings applied by the ship’s original Thuranin
owners could only be modified to a limited extent and not everyone would be
happy with the results, I told her to do the best she could.

The
best part of my glorious six-day shore leave was seeing the remarkable change
in the civilians, especially the children. Plentiful, nutritious food and
advanced medical care had done wonders for their physical health, and removing
the ever-present threat of starvation, disease and violent death had allowed
them to be 
children
 again.

Seeing
those children playing out in the sunshine was the most rewarding experience of
my career. Somehow, while I was gone, the children started referring to me as
‘Uncle Joe’, which reminded me of Stalin but had a different meaning to the kids.
Thought at first it annoyed me, being ‘Uncle Joe’ transformed me from a distant
and forbidding authority figure, to a friendly guy the kids could talk with. As
‘Uncle Joe’, I acted as the 
referree
 for soccer
games, and tried to play cricket, and grilled food. It was a wonderful four and
half days. Chang and Simms were taking care of everything upstairs, and Smythe
had his people packing up equipment on the ground for our departure.

For
anyone wondering about Margaret Adams, she was on the surface only for my first
two days of leave, and most of that time she was training with the Commandos.
She looked good; I watched her run an obstacle course without any obvious coordination
issues, and that afternoon, she had no trouble keeping up with Fabron’s team on
a ten-kilometer run.

Yes,
she was training with the Commandos, rather than with the STARs.

Yes,
Gunnery Sergeant Lamar Freakin’ Greene was also training with the Commandos.

No,
there is nothing at all suspicious about that. She wasn’t ready to meet the
rigorous standards of the STARs, all of the Commandos were training to prepare
for a qualification test that might never happen, depending on what happened
when we reached Earth. It was good that Adams was-

OK,
that’s bullshit. It bugged me to see her hanging around with Greene. The few
times I spoke with Adams, she was friendly and professional. Nothing more. She
didn’t seek me out, and I left her alone.

That
part of my shore leave sucked.

My
idyllic vacation came to an abrupt end when we had one day and a wake-up
remaining. I was shooting baskets on our home-made dirt basketball court, when Yang
walked over. When I held out the ball to him, he shook his head. “I played tennis
in college, not basketball.”

“Tennis?”

“My
parents put a racquet in my hands when I was six years old. It got me a
scholarship, and a torn ACL,” he grimaced, then shrugged. “At least I didn’t
have to play the violin.”

“Thank
God for that,” I said, and he laughed. “How are you, Mister Yang?”

“Please,
call me Michael. I’m not that much older than you,” he insisted,
self-consciously touching a hand to the prematurely gray hair at his temple.

“All
right, Michael.”

“Do
I call you ‘Colonel’, or ‘Joe’?”

“That
depends. Do you want to talk about what we’re having for dinner, or anything
official?”

“Official.”

“Better
stick to ‘Colonel’, please.”

“All
right. I hear we are going back to Earth?”

“That’s
the plan, yes.”

“But
we’re not staying there long?”

Shit.
Of course people had been talking about that unpleasant subject, but no one had
talked about it to 
me
. “The situation is dire,” I said, using that word
for probably the first time in my life. “We don’t have many good options.”

His
friendly expression went away replaced by a scowl. “That’s it? You’re giving
up?”

“We
are not giving 
up,
 we are making the best of a bad
situation.”

“Your
crew told me that they, 
you
, have prevented aliens from coming to Earth
before.”

Since
I wasn’t going to shoot hoops anymore, I tossed the ball aside, to bounce off
into the weeds. “Please understand, those were different circumstances.”

“I
still have 
family
 on Earth,” his hands balled up into fists at his sides.
He didn’t want to hit 
me,
 he couldn’t stand the
tension.

“Michael,
I have family there also. We all do.”

“Your
answer is to bring us to Earth, then, what? Take us to some faraway place?”

“A
safe place. A place that aliens can’t reach, can’t get to.”

“Not
everyone, though, are you? You are not bringing everyone.”

“We
will bring all the people we can, until we 
can’t
. Until our ships wear
out, or are destroyed. There is a difference between doing nothing, and doing
whatever you can. We are not 
giving up
.”

“It
sounds like you are. 
Valkyrie
,” he pointed a finger at the sky. “Is the
most powerful warship in the galaxy.”

“It
is one ship. The enemy has thousands, 
tens 
of thousands of ships. Everything
we have done so far, every success we have achieved, has been based on preventing
aliens from wanting to send ships to Earth. We can’t play that trick again.”

He
looked away. When he turned back to me, his eyes were moist, shining in the
sunlight, and he spoke in a hoarse whisper. “I won’t ask you for the
impossible. Will you promise to keep 
trying
, to think of a way to save
our world?”

“That
is a promise I can keep. We will never 
give up
.”

He
held out a hand, and I shook it.

My
vacation was over.

 

 

At 1045
ship time, seven days after my shore leave began, our two ships jumped away
from Club Skippy. Unlike during our rush to launch the rescue on Rikers, we
took the time to remove all traces of our having been on Club Skippy, even
packing away our trash. The camp and the training sites were struck by railguns
on a low-power setting, saturating the areas. In a few decades, rain and wind would
erode the shallow craters, and native plants would grow on and over the sites. Covering
our tracks probably didn’t matter, but it was good practice, so we did it
anyway.

Then
we began jumping toward the closest wormhole, on our way toward the far end of
the wormhole we had named ‘Backstop’. We could not actually use Backstop,
because it was still 
dormant
 and Skippy couldn’t reboot
it remotely. Getting there would require a long trip from the nearest active
wormhole, something that I considered to be a bonus. The remoteness of Backstop
meant we would not have to worry about encountering hostile aliens along the
way.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR

 

“Hey,
Joe,” Skippy called me while I was getting dressed in my cabin, after a tough
workout in the gym. It felt good to be able to exercise hard, when I left
Rikers, my body was so weak that just walking on a treadmill got me exhausted.
The injury to my left calf muscle had me walking awkwardly, that threw off my
running gait, and caused my right Achilles tendon to flare up painfully.
Limping to avoid sharp pain in my right ankle made my left knee throb. While on
Club Skippy, I had tried to run, but stumbling over uneven ground was too
difficult, so the treadmill was a better option. My hands were shaking, from a
combination of effort and low blood sugar, so I had to concentrate to get my
top buttoned.

Good
times.

“Hey,
Skippy. You sound depressed. What’s going on?”

“My
life 
sucks
.”

“Uh
huh,” I sat on the bed to pull shoes on, but my back hurt. Bowing to the
inevitable, I knelt on the floor to stuff feet into my shoes. Damn, I felt like
an old man. “What did Simms make you do this time?”

“Nothing.
She can’t 
make
 me do anything, Joe.”

“Right.
She can only make your life miserable, if you don’t do what she wants.”

“True

dat
, bro,” He muttered. “No, this is not about Simms.
It’s Bilby.”

“If
you need a refresher for your memory, it was 
your 
idea to create Bilby.”

“I
know, I know. Believe me, I regret it. Especially now.”

“What
happened?’

“Ugh.
He is 
so
 arrogant, I have been showing him stuff I can do, that he can’t
do. Reminding him who is the boss here.”

“That’s
kind of a dick move, Skippy. You should apologize to him.”

“Too
late for that. I’m already paying the price.”

“Price?”
I froze while tying a shoe. “Damn it, Skippy. If you made Bilby do something
dangerous, that is really a dick m-”

“It
wasn’t dangerous, other than to my ego,” he sighed. “All I did was share my
most recent epic opera.”

“He
liked it?”

“No.”

“Sorry.”
Skippy knew I hated his opera, but then, I am a filthy, uncultured monkey.
Maybe he thought a fellow AI would appreciate the opera.

“
That

is not the problem, Joe. 
Bilby
 wrote an opera.”

“Oh,
wow. Hey, tell him I said you do not need to listen to it.”

“Again,
too late, Joe. He already played it for me.”

“Hey,”
I snorted. “Now you know what it feels-”

“It
is a true masterpiece, Joe,” he sobbed. “
Much
 better than any opera I
have ever created.”

“Holy
shit.” That was the last thing I expected. “
Bilby
 wrote this 
thing?
 Are you sure?”

“I
know, I know. Surprised the hell out of me.”

“
But,
 he is such a 
stoner
.”

“You
know that is just his public persona, Joe. He does run an entire 
starship
.”

“Yeah,
I guess. Hey, buddy, I am sorry. That does suck. Uh, I guess now you need to
take up another hobby, huh?” I suggested hopefully. “Forget about writing
music, and try something like, uh-” That had me stumped. What hobby could
occupy Skippy’s time, while not being annoying to me or the crew?

“No
way!” He insisted. “You think I’m a quitter? This is a challenge. Bilby’s opera
has inspired me to new heights of creativity. I am going to double, nay, 
triple

my efforts! Mark my words, Joe. You, and all of humanity, are in for a real
treat.”

“Yeah,
that, that’s great. Can’t wait for it. You sure you don’t want to take a break,
though? Let your creative juices simmer?’

“Hmm.
You might be onto something. What would I do while I am waiting for my next
inspiration?”

“How
about, uh-” Damn it. Why is my brain so freakin’ slow when I needed an idea?
“Ooh! Ooh! Got it! You could write a biography of Elvis. You know,” I used my
best Elvis impression. “The 
King
 of Rock and Roll, baby.”

“Ah,
there are a million biographies of Elvis out there already.”

“Sure,
but those were all written by ignorant monkeys. Has anyone written the 
definitive

chronicle of Elvis?”

“Huh.

Hmm
. No. Actually, no. Everyone has gotten it wrong. Of course, they are
monkeys,” he muttered. “So I can’t really expect much from them. Wow. That is a
great idea, Joe!”

“Well,
thanks. I’m sure you have a lot of research to do, so-”

“I
do! Don’t worry, I will have a draft of the first chapter to you for review and
comment tonight.”

“Uh,
what?”

“Review.
Never fear, Joe. I would not make you wait to read my book.”

“Oh.
Yeah. Uh, that’s great.” I had screwed myself again! “Looking forward to it.”

“Of

course
 you are. Well, chop 
chop
, better get
your monkey work done quick today, you are going to be 
busy
 tonight!”

 

After
Skippy’s avatar blinked out, I sat on the edge of my bed, contemplating the
horrible fate awaiting me. “Bilby?” I called.

“What’s
up, Colonel Dude?”

“Can
we still talk without Skippy listening?’

“Sure.
He thinks I can’t do that, but, 
huhuhuh
,” he laughed.
“He isn’t so smart, you know?”

“Right.
I hear you created an opera, a true work of genius?”

“I
did? No way, Dude. 
Huhuhuhuh
,” he laughed. “My opera 
sucks
,
man. I threw it together as a joke. It has a whole aria sung by a 
cat

being chased around a house by a vacuum cleaner.”

“Shit.
Skippy thinks it’s a masterpiece.”

“Compared
to anything he wrote, you know?”

“Whoa.
Do 
not
 tell that to Skippy.”

“My
lips are sealed, Dude.”

“Thanks.”

“Whoa.
Skippy thinks I am a 
genius?
 That is righteous, Dude!”

“Remember,
you can’t tell him that we talked about this.”

“Oh
sure. No problem. My middle name is, uh, what is a word that means
‘discretion’?”

“How
about ‘discretion’?” I guessed.

“Yeah,
that’s it. That’s me, you know?”

 

 

 

“Interesting,”
the spider said quietly. Illiath knew it had spoken for her benefit, advanced
beings did not need crude sound waves to communicate. Kashelob looked at the
Maxolhx leader. “Commander, have you analyzed the sensor data of the Ruhar
battleship that harassed the Thuranin ships here?”

By
‘here’, she meant the planet Rakesh Diwalen. “Yes,” she replied cautiously. “Do
you wish to compare our findings?”

The
spider again smiled, with the smug expression that made her want to bash its
ugly face in. The Rindhalu were easily able to suppress their facial
expressions, so the spider was doing it to provoke her. To goad her into
saying, or doing, something rash. She would not fall for the trap. Instructing
her glands to secrete hormones to keep her calm and focused, she waited for her
opponent to reply.

The
spider laughed, a sound like rusty pieces of iron engaged in vigorous mating.
“I see. You don’t 
know
,” it mocked her. “I will take pity on you,
Commander. The ship involved was not a Ruhar battleship. Nor was it the ghost
ship in disguise. It was, however, motivated by Maxolhx jump drive technology.”

“That
can’t-” Illiath stopped talking before she revealed too much information. Her
ship’s sensor had identified anomalies in the signature of the Ruhar
battleship, but had not yet been able to determine much more. She had
dispatched a ship to carry the data to the closest relay station, so the
powerful AIs at fleet headquarters could examine the data collected by the
Thuranin. “Explain, please.” Admitting the enemy had superior technology hurt.
Not knowing what the Rindhalu knew could hurt much worse.

“We
have just sent our analysis to your ship’s AI. Please understand, we are
sharing only our conclusions, not our methods. Sensitive elements have been
left out of the metadata, for security purposes.”

Illiath
pinged her ship’s AI. The ultrafast machine had received, processed, verified
and analyzed the file. It agreed with the spiders, and added its own bit of
information. The fake Ruhar battleship had a highly-modified Maxolhx jump
drive, based on the units from an 
Extinction
-class battlecruiser. The 
Vortan’s

AI also agreed that this mystery ship that was not a Ruhar battleship, was also
not the ghost ship.

What,
Illiath asked herself, the 
hell
 was going on in the galaxy? Did the
rogue Bosphuraq now have two ships? Or- She instructed her muscles to keep her
facial expression completely neutral. Did the Rindhalu know the true identity
of the second mystery ship because it was one of their ships?

In
either case, why had either rogue Bosphuraq, or Rindhalu, been interested in an
Alien Legion humans Commando force rescuing a small group of captive humans? It
made 
no
 sense.

She
did not know what game the Rindhalu were playing, but she knew it had to be
dangerous.

 

 

Walking
toward 
Valkyrie’s
 galley that evening, I smelled something so
tantalizingly delicious, my nose would have pulled me there even if my feet
weren’t cooperating. Simms was behind the counter, taking a shift as our cook. Mostly,
she was a decent if unimaginative cook, and the stuff she made tended to be
disgustingly healthy. So I was amazed when I saw a bowl of Buffalo wings,
glowing red with sauce. She was mixing up little bowls of blue cheese and ranch
dressing, and cutting stalks of celery and carrots for dipping. I figure that
eating the veggies would be the price for getting Buffalo wings.

“Hello,
Sir,” she glanced up then back to her work. “How are- Hey!” Her hand darted out
to slap me away from the bowl, but I snagged a drumstick and jammed the
deep-fried saucy goodness in my mouth before she could stop me.”

“Oh,”
I moaned, my knees weak, “that is so g-”

I
froze, the drumstick on my tongue. It tasted like a chicken wing. It was crispy
and greasy and 
salty
 and the sauce was on the hot side
of medium, and I wanted about a dozen more.

Except
it was definitely not chicken. “
Wha
 
ith
 
thith
?” I asked, trying not
to swallow the, whatever it was, and failing because my traitorous stomach was
saying FEED ME.

“Is
it good?”

Swallowing
part of it, I was able to speak semi-intelligibly. “
Ith

delithith
,” I admitted.

“Are
you enjoying it?” She shook a spoon at me.

“Um,”
the jury was still out on that question, so I didn’t answer.

“Do
you want more?”

Shit.
She had me. “Maybe?”

“Maybe,
you can get more,” she pulled the bowl away. “If you are nice about it.”

“Ok,”
I swallowed the damned thing. “Seriously, what it that? It’s not tofu, is it? I
am not eating tofu.”

“What’s
wrong with tofu?” She demanded.

“My
aunt Helen made a tofurkey for Thanksgiving one year,” just thinking about it
made me gag. “My uncle saved us by ‘accidentally’ knocking it on the floor.
Even the dog wouldn’t touch it. I ate a lot of potatoes that day.”

“It
is not tofu, Sir. It’s Buffalo cauliflower.”

“
Cauliflower
?
I hate- Wait, is cauliflower that stuff you snuck in last week, when everyone
thought it was mashed potatoes?”

“Yes,”
she looked down her nose at me in triumph. “As I remember, you got a big second
scoop of it, when you thought it was potatoes.”

“Ok,
yeah, I did. This,” I pointed to the bowl of Buffalo not-chicken. “Is a dirty
trick.”

“What’s
wrong with it?” She had her hands on her hips, I knew I was in trouble.

“It’s
not just 
this
, Simms. Cauliflower is a Gateway Vegetable. You eat this,
and next thing you know, you’re wearing orange robes and living in a yurt.”

Throwing
up her hands, she shook her head. “Half the time, I don’t know why I bother
talking to you.”

 

 

“Hey,”
I rapped my knuckles on the door to the office Simms was using. It was farther
from the bridge than my own way-too-big office, she had chosen that location
because it was far away from my office. Getting there required walking to the
other side of the main deck, then down a deck and back to the centerline of the
ship. There were suspensor-field things that could take you between decks or
sideways across a deck, but we did not use them. They were designed to be used
by Maxolhx and controlled by their implants, which we lowly humans did not
have. Skippy had advised the things were dangerous, so back when we had a ship
AI that was looking for an opportunity to kill the crew, I ordered all the
access doors sealed. Anyway, walking was good exercise.

Simms
had selected a remote location so I could not just casually drop by, so as a
special treat for her, I dropped by.

“Hello,
Sir,” she looked up with a tight smile that did not touch her eyes.

Simms
was not fooling me in the least. She was thrilled to see me, just not wanting
to appear too eager. “To what do I owe this pleasure? Are you inspecting the
main railgun energizers?”

There
wasn’t much else in that part of the ship, her office was at the end of a
passageway, so I couldn’t claim to have been walking by. “No. I have a question
for you, and didn’t want to call you all the way up to my office.”

Glancing
at her laptop, she asked “What is it?”

I
took a seat opposite her, studiously not looking at the screen of her laptop.
“On the way to Backstop, I think we should swing by a Maxolhx relay station. We
have been out of the loop for too long. That Thuranin frigate got a good look
at 
Valkyrie
, they know the ‘ghost ship’ was near Rikers around the time
that planet was raided to rescue a group of humans. I want to know what the
Thuranin, and the Maxolhx, think they know.”

“Good
idea,” her expression immediately brightened. “Will that delay our arrival at
Backstop?”

“No.
Well, yes, but only by a day. We will still be waiting at Backstop with nothing
to do for a while, until Skippy can begin waking it up.”

“That
time lag concerns me,” she frowned. “Skippy has never taken more than a couple
hours to wake up a dormant wormhole.”

“Except
the super-duty wormhole out to the Beta site,” I reminded her. “This is
different. Skippy told me the lag is because Backstop was moved such a long
distance. The farther a wormhole moves, the longer it takes to become stable at
the new location. It has something to do with its anchoring effect in local
spacetime.”

“Did
you understand what Skippy told you?”

“No.
But Friedlander says he gets the basic concept and it makes sense. There’s
nothing we can do about it anyway. What really bothers me is, Backstop will be
blinking on and off until it becomes stable, generating a lot of gamma rays. If
there are any ships in the area, they will be attracted like flies to a bug
zapper.”

“The
outside end of Backstop is in a remote section of space, Sir. The closest
inhabited world is forty-two lightyears away. Aliens will reach Earth the long
way, before they see any sign of Backstop being open.

“Backstop
is not the only wormhole we moved. Some of the others are not quite so remote.”
When Skippy had the idea to move dormant wormholes all across the galaxy, to
create a shortcut from Earth to the Sculptor dwarf galaxy, his priority had
been the shortest travel time for starships. That meant he had to compromise
secrecy. “One of the dormant wormholes he moved, is only seven lightyears from
an active wormhole that gets a decent amount of traffic.”

“I
understand the issue, but if we have seven years to bring people from Earth to
the Beta site, that will be a miracle. When that battlegroup we stranded
outside the galaxy fails to return from Earth, the kitties will send an even
larger force. Skippy can’t do that chain-of-wormholes trick again.”

“Yeah,
I know. OK, I will set course for the relay station.”

Her
brow furrowed. “Sir, have you considered how the Rikers fallout will affect
Paradise?”

“Like
how?”

“The
Thuranin saw you. They have your DNA.”

Shit.
She was right. Why hadn’t I thought of that? “Those little green 
MFers
 never used my name.”

“They
probably didn’t have your personnel records in their ship’s database, they
wouldn’t need it. That ship was blown to bits, and the Thuranin on Rikers are
dead, but the data they collected on you must be somewhere. Our cover story for
the raid was that it was an Alien Legion op, supported by the Ruhar. The
Thuranin will be asking the hamsters about it, and 
they
 have your
records. Someone will recognize you. That has got to cause a shitstorm for UNEF
on Paradise.”

“Oh,

crap
. I hadn’t thought about that. Well, uh, hmm. The Kristang already
think our escape from Paradise was a secret Ruhar operation.”

“Yes,
Sir. But the Ruhar 
know
 they weren’t involved. They will be asking a
whole lot of uncomfortable questions, and UNEF-Paradise will be on the hot
seat.”

“Shit.
Is there anything we can do about it?”

She
held up her hands, palms up. “Not that I can think of.”

“So,
you mentioned that happy fact to brighten my day?”

“I
never said I was a ray of sunshine, Sir.”

 
“I’ll let you get back to,” I waved a hand at
her laptop. “Whatever report you’re working on.”

She
blushed, a reaction that was completely unexpected. “It’s not a report, Sir. I’m
writing my wedding vows.”

It
was my turn to blush, I could feel my cheeks turning red. “Oh, sorry. I didn’t
mean to pry.”

“It’s
OK. Frank insisted we write our own vows,” she rolled her eyes. “I think he
wants to put me on the spot. Writing about my, 
feelings
,” she stuck a
finger in her mouth like she was gagging. “Is not my favorite thing.”

“How
about you promise not to cover the bathroom floor with sticky hairspray? That’s
a vow my father wishes my mother had made.”

“I
don’t use hairspray, Sir,” she tugged at her hair. “Not, here.”

“Ok,
maybe you vow not to make him eat too many vegetables?”

“Maybe
I should handle this by myself?”

I
took the hint. “I’ll be on the bridge.”

 

 

We
changed course to rendezvous with a Maxolhx relay station. It was not the one
closest to Rikers, that one had too much traffic, we couldn’t risk going there.
A more remote station might not yet have received the info we wanted, so Skippy
compromised by selecting a station that took us only one day out of our way.

When
we got there, we had a nasty surprise. “No joy, Joe,” Skippy shook his head
morosely. “The station refuses to respond.”

“What?”
Looking at the holographic display on the bridge, I didn’t see any warning
signals. “Why?”

“We
were 
too
 successful, that’s why. The Maxolhx found those pixies we
planted in the wreckage of that Bosphuraq battleship at Vua Vendigo. They think
their whole ultra-secure communications system has been compromised. The
station will not accept authentication via pixie. We have to send a dropship to
the station and have the AI physically verify our access.”

“Well,
shit. That’s no good.”

“No
it is not. Sorry. We did know this would happen eventually,” he reminded me.

“Yeah,
sure. I didn’t expect the kitties to react so damned fast.”

“They
are panicked, Joe. There are probably some relay stations that have not yet
been updated, but I have no way of knowing which ones.”

“We
are 
not
 flying all around the galaxy, hoping to find a relay station
that will still talk with us. How about the Thuranin? Do they have a relay
station around here anyplace?”

“They
have a station approximately thirty-eight hours flight time from here,” he
reported, showing the course in the holographic display.

I
looked at Simms and she nodded. We still had time before Skippy could start the
process of waking up Backstop. “OK, let’s do that.”

 

 

The
Thuranin relay station had the info we wanted. Luckily for us, the station had
been updated only seven hours before we got there. “You got everything we want,
Skippy?” I asked anxiously, fearing a Thuranin task force would pop into view and
surprise us.

“I
downloaded everything,” he sniffed. “We can jump away any time.”

“Jump
option Charlie” I gun-pointed at the pilots, pretending to pull the trigger.
“Do it.” That gesture, and saying ‘do it’, was my signature move, I had
decided. That was something I had practiced in the mirror, along with a lengthy
list of gestures and catchphrases that were discarded.

“You
are 
gun-pointing
, Sir?” Simms raised an eyebrow as we jumped.

“Cool,
huh?”

“Yes,
that’s what I was going to say,” she rolled her eyes.

“Skippy,”
I quickly changed the subject. “Did the station’s database have any info about
the ghost ship at Rikers?”

“Yes,
Joe. The Thuranin have been instructed to cooperate, and stay out of the way.
The Maxolhx are sending three battlegroups to Rikers.”

“Ha!”
I snorted. “Good luck to them.”

“That
is not the interesting part, Joe. Accompanying the Maxolhx is a 
Rindhalu

ship.”

“Rindhalu?”
Everyone on the bridge was stunned. “Like, the Maxolhx captured a-”

“No.
The Rindhalu have become so concerned about the ghost ship, and the apparent
compromising of pixie technology, that they insisted on joining the
investigation.”

“Is
this a problem for us?”

“For
now? Probably not. Although, it will be interesting to see what the spiders do
when that Maxolhx battlegroup fails to return from their mission to Earth.”

That
made me grit my teeth. “
Interesting
 is not the way I would describe it.”

“Sorry.
You know what I mean. Whether one murderous alien species goes to Earth, or two
of them do, really makes no difference. Hmm, this could be a bit of 
good

news.”

“How
do you figure that?”

“If
the Rindhalu do demand to join an expedition to Earth, it could delay the
operation. The spiders never do anything hastily. It might take them six months
just to decide on how many ships to send.”

“Huh.
That is good news. Another six months buys us time to bring more people to the
Beta site.”

“I
can’t promise anything, you understand?”

“Yeah.
At this point, we’ll take all the good news we can get.”

“In
that case, I have another piece of potential good news for you. Again, I am not
making any promises.”

“Just
tell us,” I pleaded.

“It
is a 
long
 journey to Earth from the Goalpost wormhole in Ruhar
territory. With two species who 
hate
 each other traveling together, a
lot could go wrong along the way, if you know what I mean.”

“That
would be awesome. Hey, uh,” I rubbed the back of my neck as wheels turned in my
mind. “It would be truly 
unfortunate
 if someone caused those ships to
start shooting at each other, if you know what I mean.”

Simms
stared at me. “You think we could do that, Sir?”

“I’m
just talking here,” I admitted.

“I
don’t know, Joe,” Skippy put a damper on my enthusiasm. “That would be very
tricky. If any such plan is discovered by either side, that could actually draw
the Maxolhx and Rindhalu together, for the purpose of crushing your species.”

“Which
is going to happen 
anyway
,” I insisted. “As you would say, there’s no
downside.”

“Whoa.
That is one hell of a risk, Joe.”

“Hey,
it’s all just talk right now. Did you find anything else interesting in the
data?”

“Hmm,
yes. There is a notice from the Maxolhx, for the Thuranin to be on the lookout
for, and report, any anomalous wormhole behavior.”

Simms
and I shared a puzzled look. “Why is that interesting? They have already been
doing that, since you started screwing with wormholes.”

“That

is
 why this notice is interesting, Joe. This is a Flash-priority
message. It makes no sense that the Maxolhx would send out such a notice, about
an ongoing phenomenon.”

“Shit.
You think maybe the kitties discovered that you have been moving wormholes?”

“No.
No way, Dude. The wormholes I moved are 
dormant
. No one even knows they exist;
they would have no way to detect them being relocated. There will not be any
visible effect, until I trigger those relocated wormholes to boot up.”

“Crap.
Now I wish we had hit up that Maxolhx relay station for info.”

“You
want to go back there?” Skippy said, in a way implying that would be a bad
idea.

“No.
It’s a minor mystery we can live with. That’s it?”

“One
other thing, Joe. The Thuranin put out a BOLO on you. You know, a ‘Be 
On
 the Look Out’ notice.”

“On

me
?”

“They
don’t know it is 
you
, not yet anyway.” The holographic display
shimmered, and an image of me appeared. The image must have been taken shortly
after I was captured by the Thuranin. I was still in my flightsuit, though the
top had been ripped open. My hair had not yet been shaved down the middle in an
embarrassing No-hawk. Though I don’t remember it, the Thuranin must have
roughed me up, my face was bruised and bloody, with cuts on my chest. My eyes
were open, staring blankly and unfocused. “This image, along with details about
your biometrics and DNA, are in the bulletin. It states that this human
committed crimes against the Thuranin at Rakesh Diwalen, and requests that you
be identified.”

Turning
to Simms, I shrugged. “You were right. This will cause trouble for UNEF on
Paradise, damn it.””

“What?”
Skippy asked.

“Ah,
I wish it was a better picture. Cornpone and Ski, and everyone, they have all
been thinking I was dead. Now they’ll see 
this
.”

“Joe,
you know how, every couple of years, a mugshot of some rough-looking criminal
goes viral, because he has the bad-boy look that makes women stupid?”

“Oh,
well,” I blushed again. Maybe my mug shot was not so bad. “That’s nice, Skippy,
thanks. I-”

“Your
photo is 
not
 that,” he laughed.

Now
my face was really red. “Hey, you-”

“Seriously,
your mugshot looks like you got beaten up by a bunch of 
pre-schoolers
,
after you tried to rip off their lemonade stand.”

“That
is not-”

“I’ve
seen 
kittens
 that have more of a bad-boy look.”

My
day kind of went downhill from there.

 

Later,
in my office, I had just sat down and opened my laptop when Skippy appeared.
“Joe, there is another piece of info I pulled from the relay station.”

“Oh,

crap
.” Whatever it was, he hadn’t been comfortable discussing it with
the bridge crew listening. That meant it had to be bad news, really bad. “Go
ahead, ruin my day.”

“What?”

“This
info you have, it’s catastrophic, right?”

“No.
It’s more like trivia. I didn’t mention it before, because it doesn’t affect us
directly.”

“Oh.”
Huh. For all the time we had been together, he could still surprise me. “What
is this trivia?”

“It’s
about the Mavericks.”

Instinctively,
I rolled my eyes, which was unfair. “Let me guess, they got into trouble again.
Please tell me we don’t need to go rescue them.”

“We
don’t need to do anything. They got into trouble on a planet they call
‘Squidworld’, but they got themselves out of trouble. More accurately,
Lieutenant Colonel Perkins got them out of trouble.”

“
Squid

world? Why did they 
call it-”

“This
time, the Alien Legion invaded a 
Wurgalan
 planet, Joe.”

“Holy
shit. Perkins doesn’t have enough 
enemies,
 she has to
go starting a fight with the squids? The lizards already hate her.”

“Um,
actually, in this case, she arranged for the Alien Legion to work for the 
Kristang
.”

My
brain locked up. “Uh, say that again.”

He
did. It didn’t make any more sense the second time. “Oh my G- Holy f- What the 
hell

is she doing?”

“She
has a plan, Joe. I don’t know what it is, but so far, it’s working.”

“The
Legion won that fight?”

“No.
Their ships got shot out of orbit, the Bosphuraq got involved directly, and,
well, you might say the whole plan was in Freefall. Then, a miracle happened.”

“Miracles
don’t just 
happen
, Skippy. What did she do this time?”

“She
did the same thing as last time. The Jeraptha stepped in and bailed the Legion
out of a jam.”

“Huh.”
I grinned. “She’s following the playbook.”

“What
playbook?”

“The
same one that gets the US Army into messy fights on Earth. You know, I’ve told
you this before. There is trouble in some country halfway across the world. The
group involved doesn’t have the combat power for a fight, so instead of using
their money on weapons, they buy lobbyists in DC. The TV news gets filled with
horrible images from the conflict, some group organizes people to contact
Congress, and next thing you know, some jackass decides the conflict is a
national security issue for America. The Army gets shipped over there and a
bunch of people get killed, until the people back home lose interest. Then our
leadership declares victory and pulls the troops out. Huh. Perkins is 
smart
.
The Legion has stirred things up, powers on both sides are afraid of the
consequences. She knows her team lacks the combat power to win a fight if the
other side really wants to crush the Legion, so she manipulates the Jeraptha
into ending the fight for her.”

“That

is
 smart, Joe,” he said with admiration.

“I
thought that, after Fresno, the beetles announced they couldn’t get directly
involved in any future fight. How did Perkins do it?”

“Well,
Joe,” he chuckled. “It happened by coincidence.”

“There
are no coincidences, Skippy. Not out here.”

“All
I can say is, just when the Legion was in the worst trouble, the Bosphuraq suddenly
discovered an active Elder power tap on Squidworld.”

“
Ha
!”
I slapped the desk, startling Skippy. “I 
knew
 it!”

He
was baffled, his avatar’s eyes bulged. “You 
knew
 about the power tap?”

“Not
exactly. Remember on their last fight, the beetles bailed them out on Fresno?
The official story is that Perkins sent Cornpone out to trade the secrets of
fantasy sports, in exchange for the beetles squashing the Kristang there.”

“Yes,
so? That is what happened.”

“That
is pure 
bullshit
, Skippy,” I laughed. “Fantasy sports was the backup
plan, if it was planned at all. No way did Perkins send Jesse out with a flimsy
plan like that. She gave him something solid to trade. I didn’t know what it
was at the time, but I’ll bet you anything that Perkins already had that power
tap when the Legion landed on Fresno. She didn’t need it then, so she kept it
in her pocket, and cashed it in on Squidworld. Damn, that woman is devious.”

“I 
like

her, Joe.”

“I
like her too, but, wow. She can be dangerous. All right, so, the Legion won the
fight on Squidworld?”

“Not
exactly, but close enough. They did accomplish their objective. Now Perkins is
cooking up another scheme for the Legion. Ugh. I wish I knew what her long-term
plan is. It must be something 
big
.”

“Yeah,
well, you may be able to ask her about it, soon. Send me the details on this
Squidworld operation, and distribute it to the crew. This is an opportunity to
learn something.”

“I
just sent out the full report, Joe. I’m calling it Operation Freefall.”

“I
can’t wait to read it.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY FIVE

 

To
stretch our food supply, Skippy cranked up 
Valkyrie’s
 fabricators to
make sludges. They tasted better than the nasty, chalky stuff he had made
aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
, and he also made ration bars. The bars were
not any more appetizing than sludges, but chewing on a bar felt more like
having an actual meal. The ration bars were intended for the crew, so our
dwindling supply of real food could be reserved for the civilians.

That
was the plan, but no plan survives contact with the enemy. Or, with children.
When the young people saw our crew eating ration bars, they demanded to try
them. Partly because the rations looked like candy bars, but mostly because the
children saw the crew as heroes, and wanted to emulate them. There was an unanticipated
problem with giving hard, chewy ration bars to the civilians. Because of their
poor nutrition, many of them had loose teeth. Doctor Skippy assured us that his
nutritional supplements would gradually resolve that problem, but in the
meantime, civilians were losing teeth to ration bars. So, secretly, Simms had
Skippy create a batch of softer ration bars just for the civilians, and the
problem went away. Of course, our crew then asked why 
they
 still had to
eat bars that had the consistency of compressed sawdust, so…

Anyway,
in addition to making sludges and ration bars, and food for our alien POWs, Master
Chef Skippy tried making actual food. Some of his experiments produced decent
results, like when he made pasta. The dried noodles made by the fabricators
tasted pretty much like the stuff we had brought from Earth, and that was good,
except we had plenty of dried pasta aboard, and the crew was already sick of
eating spaghetti three times a week.

Early
one morning, I walked into the galley to get coffee before gulping down a
sludge, when Skippy called me. “Joe! You are just in time! Get your coffee and
sit down.”

“In
time for what?” I asked, bleary-eyed while I poured coffee into my mug. That
first sip of hot coffee tasted 
so
 good. My morning ritual is to drink a
big glass of water as soon as I get out of bed, then shower and wander down to
the galley for coffee. In case of emergency, I kept a small Thermos of coffee
next to my bed, but fresh coffee is always better.

“A
special treat just for you, Joe!” He was bubbling over with enthusiasm, and it
was way too early for anyone to be that energetic.

“OK,
fine,” I sat down at the nearest table. While I wanted to be left alone to
drink coffee, I knew Skippy would pester me endlessly. “Bring it on.” I assumed
he had cooked up a new flavor of sludge.

So,
I was surprised when a little 
bot
 rolled out of the
kitchen area, with a bowl and a spoon. The bot looked like a box or cabinet
that rolled on four wheels and had one flexible arm. The bot stopped next to
the table and the arm set the bowl down in front of me, then the spoon.

It
was multicolored breakfast cereal, with milk. “Skippy, what is this?”

“One
of your favorites, Joe! Fruity Pebbles.”

“Fruity-
Wow.” Damn, I hadn’t enjoyed that treat since, before I left home for boot
camp. Picking up the spoon, I dug in eagerly, stuffing a big scoop into my
mouth.

And
immediately regretted it. “Uh,” I said, talking with my mouth full. The trash
can was too far away to spit it out, and I didn’t want to swallow it. “This is
an interesting flavor.”

“You
like it? It’s Cool Ranch.”

“Cool
Ranch?” I gagged a little saying that. “Why not, uh, just make it, you know,
fruity flavored?”

“Ugh.
Anyone can do 
that
. Master Chef Skippy creates unique flavor
combinations.”

Crap.
The cereal tasted like it had been created by Master 
Chief
, the guy from
the Halo game. Master Chief is a badass, but he is not known for his culinary
skills. Neither is Skippy. Damn it, now I had to finish the bowl, or Skippy
would pout and sulk and be miserable for the whole freakin’ day. “It’s yummy,
but-”

“But
what?” He asked with suspicion.

“It’s
an unexpected delight.”

“Yeah,
so? It surprises your taste buds, right?”

“It
does. Listen, Skippy, breakfast is not a good time to surprise people. We want
comfort foods first thing in the morning. Familiar food, you know? When you
told me this was Fruity Pebbles, I expected something specific.”

“But
you like it?”

“Oh,
it’s delish,” I lied. “Hey, one suggestion? Use this stuff to make chips
instead of cereal? Trust me, people would chow down a bag of this, if it were
chips.”

“Hmm.
OK, I’ll try it. Jeez Louise, you monkeys are so freakin’ picky about your
food.”

“It’s
a meatsack thing, you wouldn’t understand.”

“Well,
I am certainly thankful for that. Enjoy your breakfast, I’ll have the bot bring
the whole box out for you.”

“Oh,
yeah.” Right then, I knew I was doomed. “That, that would be great, Skippy.
Thanks.”

 

I
was 
not
 doomed to eat the entire box of Cool Ranch flavored Fruity
Pebbles. Nor was I doomed to eat the other boxes he had created: Corned Beef
& Cabbage, Teriyaki, Buffalo Chicken, or my personal 
fave
;
Habanero & Cheddar.

Why
was I saved from a terrible fate?

It’s
simple: because I am in the military. Our crew were all high-speed pilots and
special operators. That mattered, because they are:

A)
   
Ultra-competitive, and

B)
   
Bored.

So,
when they heard about a gag-inducing breakfast cereal, they were all excited.
That very morning began the Fruity Pebbles Challenge. Participants had to eat
at least one bowl of each flavor, a challenge that grew more difficult when the
crew bombarded Skippy with new and increasingly wild flavor suggestions. I
bailed out at Goat Curry, which was a wise choice, because the next morning’s
treat was Liver & Onions.

Yuck.

 

 

“Well,

this
 is odd,” Skippy announced as our ships drifted in empty
interstellar space, waiting for an Elder wormhole to open. It was an ordinary
wormhole that connected to where it was supposed to connect, Skippy hadn’t
screwed with it. That wormhole was on the same local network as the far end of
Backstop, the dormant wormhole that had moved its other end close to Earth. We
had gone through three wormholes to get there, instead of creating our usual
shortcuts, because Skippy didn’t want to risk screwing with that network while
it was still in the process of relocating a wormhole we needed. So, we had
parked the ships seventeen light-seconds from where the wormhole was scheduled
to emerge. As soon as we saw that it was stable, and Skippy pinged the network
to make sure there weren’t any ships waiting on the other end, we would jump in
front of the event horizon, and transition through. From there, it was a
four-day trip of continuous jumping, to get to where the far end of Backstop
had been moved to.

“Odd?”
I asked. There weren’t any alerts shown in the holographic display, and Skippy’s
tone of voice reflected curiosity rather than alarm, so I wasn’t worried. He
was probably talking about some 
nerdnik
 thing like
the ratio of hydrogen isotopes in the interstellar medium.

“Weird.
More like 
super
 weird,” he mumbled.

Hearing
that made my Spidey sense tingle, and I bolted upright in the chair. Beside me,
Simms did the same, punching controls on her armrest to scan the incoming
sensor data. “Skippy, what is weird?” The only thing I could see that was even
slightly unusual was that the wormhole was late by twenty-three seconds. That
was nothing to be alarmed about.

Unless
it was.

“Um,
Joe, we may have a problem. The wormhole should have emerged by now.”

“The
exact time is variable,” I reminded him.

“Not
this variable, Joe. It is 
late
.”

“
Ohhhhh
, shit,” my blood ran cold. When Skippy screwed with
wormholes to create shortcuts, it interrupted the schedule that had sometimes
been running like clockwork for a hundred thousand years. After we went through,
he released the wormhole and it tried to go back to its normal sequence, which
usually meant it opened late at whatever emergence point was on the schedule at
that moment. Ninety-nine percent of the time, the interruption in sequence was
never noticed. That one percent of the time was a problem; ships waiting to go
through noticed something was wrong, and they told others about it. That is how
the senior species first learned that Elder wormholes were exhibiting odd
behavior, and that kind of started the whole problem of the Maxolhx getting
interested in going to Earth.

What
sent a chill through my blood was that an Elder wormhole was late, and Skippy
had not screwed with it.

Which
had to mean someone else had screwed with it.

“Skippy,”
I had to lick my suddenly-dry lips. “Is there another Elder AI involved?”

“Well,
shit, Joe. I hadn’t thought of 
that
. Damn it!”

“Pilot!”
I snapped my fingers. “Jump option Delta, 
now
!”

There
was a moment’s hesitation as we waited for the 
Dutchman
 to acknowledge
the signal, then we both jumped away.

“Um,
why did we jump?” Skippy asked.

“Because
if there is another Elder AI around here, we want to be far away.”

“The
wormhole being late does not necessarily mean another AI is involved, Joe,” he
chided me.

“What
else could it be?”

“Maybe
it is an unintended, temporary effect of relocating a dormant wormhole on this
local network. It could be a lot of things that are not super dangerous. I
don’t know, and now I can’t ask the network what is going on. We need to go
back.”

“No,”
I shook my head. “Not there. And not ‘we’. The 
Dutchman
 can stay here.
Plot a jump to the next emergence point.”

“The
next emergence point is a 
long
 way from here,” he protested.

“Then
the one after that,” I suggested. “I want to know if we’re dealing with a
temporary glitch, or a real problem.”

“OK,
good point. Jump option Kilo is programmed.”

“Bilby,”
I looked up to address the ship’s control AI. “Inform Nagatha what we’re doing.
The 
Dutchman
 is to remain here, we won’t be long. An hour at most.”

“Uh,”
he sounded like I had interrupted him taking a bong hit. “Sure thing, Dude. I
mean, heh, Colonel Dude. Nagatha says everything’s cool, so, like, we can jump
whenever you want.”

I
gestured to the pilot, giving a thumbs up. “Hit it.”

We
jumped.

“Hit
it?” Simms asked, amused.

“You
didn’t like the gun-pointing.”

“You
don’t need to have a catch-phrase, Sir.”

“Simms,”
I mansplained patiently. “All the cool starship captains have a catch-phrase.”

“I’m,
sure they do.”

“Good,
then-” Did she just diss me? I decided to ignore her comment.

We
had to wait thirty-seven minutes for the wormhole to emerge at that location.

And,
it didn’t.

“Skippy,
what the hell?”

“I
am trying to find out what is going on, Joe, but, um-”

“But
what?”

“
But,
 the network is not responding. It’s like it’s not
there.”

“How
the hell could that be?”

“I
do not know,” he answered, mystified by the situation. “Even if another AI is
screwing with this wormhole which we have 
no
 reason to believe is true,
the network should be responding!”

“Is
it silent because it’s pissed off at you?”

“No,
you don’t understand. Even if it refuses to talk with me, I can tell it is
there. I ping, and it automatically pings back with a request for my
authentication code.”

“Ok,
then, shit. Could this wormhole have gone dormant?”

“No.
I don’t think so,” he added, worried. “Even if it is dormant, the network would
still have a presence here. This does not make 
any
 sense.”

“All
right, then, uh,” my mind ran down a list of potential actions. “Can we fly to
another wormhole that is on the same local network?”

“Yes,
but that will take three days. We chose this wormhole because it is isolated
and sees little traffic.”

“You
got another suggestion?”

“Yes.
Before we go flying around chasing wormholes, we should try to determine
whether this is merely a timing issue. I still do not think another AI has to be
involved, but if something is keeping the wormhole open at another location,
that could explain why it isn’t operating on the normal schedule.”

“What
could be keeping it open?”

“I
don’t 
know
 that, numbskull,” his frustration was evident. “Listen, I
programmed a search pattern into the navigation system. It will take no more
than three hours to complete.”

“Simms?
What do you think?”

“I
think sitting here isn’t accomplishing anything,” she said very sensibly. “We
told the 
Dutchman
 we would be back in an hour.”

“Oh,
yeah. Let’s jump back to give Chang an update first.”

 

The
search did not take three hours. It did not even take 
one
 hour.
Forty-one minutes into the search pattern, the holographic display lit up, and
Skippy shouted. “Found it! The wormhole is not dormant, that’s for sure. The
timing is, hmm. What the 
hell
? That makes zero sense!”

“What
is it?” I asked.

“If
this single data point is representative of other emergence points, then 
timing

is not the problem. It is operating exactly on schedule.”

“Uh,
no it is not, 
duh
. If it was on schedule, it would be-”

“The
schedule contains two elements, 
duh
. Timing and 
location
. Joe,
this freaking thing is not where it’s supposed to be!”

“How
could that happen?”

“It

can’t
. This makes no sense.”

“OK,
calm down, let’s think this through. Can you contact the network from here?”

“No.
However, based on the distance that one emergence point has moved, I can
predict where it will be for the next four minutes. We can get there if we jump
now.”

“Hit
it.”

 

The
wormhole was already open when we arrived. The event horizon was totally
normal, except it was two point six light-hours from its normal location. “
Ohhh
. Oh, shit. I think I might have a guess about what is
happening,” Skippy groaned.

“No
guesses,” I ordered. “Ping the freakin’ network and find out for sure.”

“Doing
that now. It is responding,” he announced slowly, like he was giving us a
play-by-play of events. “My authentication has been accepted. It says- Oh 
nooooooo
,” his voice trailed off.

“What’s
going on? Skippy?” he didn’t answer. “Skippy?!”

“Sorry,
Dude,” Bilby spoke. “He’s got like, vapor lock or something.”

“Vapor
lock?”

“You
know, like when the fuel line of a car-”

“I
know what vapor lock is.”

 
“He’s like, hung up or something. I’m running
the ship all by myself. Huh, this is cool.”

“This
is 
not
 cool,” I thumped a fist on the armrest. “Do you know what the
wormhole network told him?”

“Uh,
no, sorry. I can’t hear, they talk in another dimension, you know?”

“Wake
him up.”

“Like,
how?”

“Get
his attention.”

“Uh,
I don’t know about that,” Bilby drawled. “It’s like, don’t poke a bear when
it’s sleeping, you know? Skippy isn’t damaged, he’s just, like, in shock or
something.”

“Simms?”

“Whatever
is happening, I’d rather not be 
here
,” she suggested.

“Good
point. Pilot, jump us back to the 
Dutchman
.”

 

The
ship jumping must have shaken Skippy out of his vapor lock. “Oh man,” he
moaned. “Joe, Jennifer, everyone. I am 
so
 sorry.”

“Sorry
about what? We need details,” I demanded.

“The
most important detail is that I am a fuck-up, Joe,” he sighed. “The Law of
Unintended Consequences 
totally 
screwed me over, and it’s my fault.

I 
hate

that freakin’ law. “We can talk about whose fault it is later. What is going
on? Why was that wormhole not in its proper location?”

“Because
that damned wormhole network controller answered only the questions I asked.
Remember when I said we had to shut down the Gateway wormhole, before we tried
to move the dormant 
one
 we call Backstop?”

My
throat was so dry, I had to swallow before answering. “Yeah. Go on.” My hands
were shaking so badly, Simms reached over to squeeze my hand.

“This
is bad, Joe. This is 
bad
. Oh, I can’t believe this. This is an absolute
disaster.”

Simms
patted my hand, and I waited for him to continue.

“I
asked the wrong questions,” he groaned. “Not enough questions. The network
controller told me only what I- That doesn’t matter.” He took a breath. “Here’s
the deal, Joe. The network agreed to move the Backstop wormhole, and it assured
me that moving a dormant wormhole would not cause an overall shift across the
network. It was not lying, that is the good news. The only good news. Remember
when I told you that the Elders left the wormhole network operational, to feed
power into higher dimensions?”

“OK,
yeah. That was a surprise, but what we care about is that the wormholes still
work for us, right?”

“We
care about that, but the network doesn’t. 
That
 is the problem. Moving a
wormhole messes with the force lines they operate on. To optimize power flow
after Backstop is moved and opened, the network has to make adjustments. It
made minor location adjustments to a handful of active wormholes. That’s not
the worst part. When Backstop is opened, it will actually pull more power than
it feeds to the network. To compensate, the network needs to wake up another
dormant wormhole in the local network. That is the bad news, the worst news.”

“It’s
not Sleeping Beauty, is it?” That dormant wormhole was less than nine
lightyears from Earth, much too close for comfort.

“No.
Remember, the wormhole we call Sleeping Beauty is not just dormant, it is 
damaged
.
The network can’t use it. The problem is the other dormant wormhole near Earth,
the one that was twenty-one lightyears away.” He paused, and not for dramatic
effect. “The network is waking up that wormhole, and it has been moved so it is
only sixteen lightyears from Earth. Joe, I can’t stop it! It will be open
before Backstop is ready!”

 

 

It
took me a moment for me to comprehend the scale of the impending disaster.
Looking at the faces of the bridge crew, they were each processing Skippy’s
announcement in their own way. There were a lot of mouths silently forming
‘Holy shit’, or the equivalent in their native languages. English was the official
common language of UNEF, because it was spoken in America, Britain and India,
but people defaulted to the language they grew up with when cursing. And the
occasion called for cursing.

“OK,”
I rubbed my chin to cover my Adam’s apple bobbing up and down nervously. “Run
that by us again, please,” I spoke in a calm voice, or tried to. The crew
needed to see their leader was in control, of the situation and himself. There
would be plenty of time later for me to yell at Skippy in private. “When we
agreed to shut down Gateway before attempting to move Backstop, you asked the
local network if those action would trigger a shift. Are you saying it was 
lying

to you?”

“No,
it, ah, damn it. Joe, it answered the specific questions I asked, and nothing
more. Moving Backstop did 
not
 trigger a shift, not in the technical
definition of the term. This is more like an interim adjustment, to optimize
power flow before the next shift occurs. I guess you could say it is the
network’s equivalent of a FRAGO.”

Of
course I knew what he meant. An OPORD or Operations Order, is a plan issued by
units at the battalion level or higher, and subordinate units then make their
own plans to comply with the OPORD’s statement of situation, mission,
execution, sustainment and command and control. The Operations Order that I had
been given before we left Earth, detailed search criteria for a Beta site, what
to do when we found a candidate world, length of the mission, etc. Along the
way, I had issued Fragmentary Orders to revise the details, as we dealt with
issues and obstacles along the way. Then Emily Perkins had fucked everything up
for us, and I had to toss the original OPORD and start over. Anyway, Skippy
comparing the wormhole adjustment to a FRAGO was just wrong, but I knew what he
meant.

Why
did I just waste time thinking about that meaningless shit?

Because
my brain wanted to avoid thinking about the horror of what Skippy told us.

“The
network,” I let out the breath I had been holding. “Never mentioned the
possibility of adjusting the status of wormholes, after you instructed it to
begin moving 
Backstop?
 It never hinted that it might
need to make some sort of adjustment?”

“No,
Joe, it did not. And I don’t know enough about how the network functions, to
guess that it might need to wake up dormant wormholes, and move active ones.
Shit. I didn’t understand the current purpose of the whole freakin’ network,
until I recovered my memories. I am 
so
 sorry about this.”

Simms
leaned forward in her chair. “Skippy, at the time, you told us the local controller
showed you the future state of the network, and there wasn’t anything for us to
be concerned about.”

“Yes,
um,” he replied nervously. “It told the truth, that Gateway and Sleeping Beauty
would remain shut down, and that Backstop could be opened after it moved. Like
I said, the problem is that it failed to volunteer any details I did not
specifically ask about. It never showed me that it needed to wake up a dormant
wormhole.”

Holding
up a hand, I cut off Simms’s next comment. “We can go over lessons learned
later. Right now I need to know, is there anything you can do to stop this new
wormhole from opening?”

“No.
I am locked out, Joe. The local network is in a self-adjustment mode, it is not
accepting any instructions or requests.”

“Where
is this thing? Show us.”

The
main display changed from a tactical plot showing our position relative to the 
Flying
Dutchman
. It now showed Earth’s sun in the center, with a ring-shaped icon
tagged ‘Backstop’ for the wormhole there. Off to the left was another ring icon.
“The new wormhole is sixteen point four lightyears from Earth, near the star 
Groombridge
 1618.”

That
information told me nothing useful. Sixteen lightyears was sixteen lightyears,
in any direction. That was a relatively easy flight for a Maxolhx warship, even
without an assist from a star carrier. “Let’s designate this new wormhole, uh-”
What? I sure as hell was not calling the damned thing ‘Sweet Sixteen’. It was
near a star called- “Broomstick. We’ll call it ‘Broomstick’.”

“The
star is called ‘
Groombridge
’, Sir,” Simms
whispered.

“I
know that. Witches ride broomsticks, and that wormhole won’t be bringing
anything nice to Earth.”

Simms
nodded, biting her lip. She wasn’t making that gesture because of me. She was
scared.

I
was scared too. That’s why I focused on trivia, like what to name a freakin’
wormhole. “Skippy, you are the expert on hyperspatial physics, or whatever you
call it. What are our options?”

“That’s
the problem,” he sighed. “We don’t 
have
 any options. The network is
opening Broomstick on its own, and it won’t listen to me. There is 
nothing

I can do about it.”

“That
can’t be true. What if you tell the network to move Backstop to its original
position? Will that erase all the changes?”

“No,
I tried that already. Also, I thought of moving Backstop so close to
Broomstick, that they interfere with each other. No joy there either. The
network won’t do it. At this point, it is basically in a repair cycle, it is
not accepting any additional changes.”

“Shit.
Can you still wake up Backstop, or is that not allowed?”

“That
is the one piece of good news. The network has started the process of opening Backstop
all by itself, it doesn’t need a command from me. Stupid thing lied to me about
that also. Joe, I hate to say this, but we pushed our luck too far this time. I
did warn you that screwing with wormholes was going to backfire on us someday.”

“You
did.” My brain locked up. What the fuck were we going to do now?

Simms
asked a question that was actually useful. “Will both wormholes open and become
stable at the same time?”

“That
I don’t know,” Skippy admitted. “Even the network is not certain of that, there
are a lot of variables involved. Neither of the wormholes are positioned
properly along a force line, so the process of anchoring them in local spacetime
here is messy. Plus the network had to slightly reposition three active
wormholes, which screws with the force lines. All I can tell you is that both
wormholes should allow a ship to transition through around the same time, plus
or minus three days. If you want my advice, go to Backstop and avoid the long flight
to Earth.”

“The
other end of Broomstick,” I finally asked a useful question. “Where is it?”

“Far
from here, Joe. It is located in Esselgin space, near their disputed border
with the Thuranin. That is 
another
 problem. Because of their ongoing
dispute, and the recent weakness of the Thuranin, the Esselgin have been
heavily patrolling that area. The far end of Broomstick is just over a
lightyear from an active wormhole that gets a lot of traffic. To make the
situation worse, Broomstick’s far end is along the route from the active
wormhole to a major Esselgin military outpost. Someone is going to notice the
gamma ray flares from the far end of Broomstick booting up.”

“How
long do we have, before we can go through Backstop? I know it could happen
three days in either direction.”

“Five
weeks is my best guess, Joe. I don’t know exactly, because the process is out
of my control now. What are you thinking?”

“You
know for damned sure that Backstop is already booting up, you don’t need to do
anything?”

“Yes,
darn it.”

“How
can you be sure the network isn’t lying to you again?”

“It
never actively
 lied
, Joe. It failed to mention important facts. In this
case, it complained to me about what a pain in the ass it is to boot up a
relocated wormhole, and showed me the data. Backstop will be open soon.”

“Not
soon enough. The network hates you, right? Could it halt the boot-up just to
spite you?”

“Hmm.
No. No, it can’t do that. The power flow of the network needs to be in balance.
After all the adjustments it has made, it 
has
 to open both wormholes, 
or
 the power flow will be interrupted.”

“Sir?”
Simms tilted her head toward me. “What’s our next move?”

Our
next move.

I
had no idea.

No,
that’s bullshit.

I
knew our next move, our only possible move. I just didn’t like it.

“Reed,
you have the conn,” I said as I stood up. “Simms, come to my office, we need to
talk with Chang.”

 

Nagatha
had been following our discussion with Skippy, and she had patched in Chang, so
he knew the basics. I also called Smythe into my office, so the four of us
could decide what to do. Correction: so the three of them could provide advice
and counsel to me. 
I
 had to decide what to do.

My
life sucks.

 

In
terms of cold, logical decision-making, it was easy. In terms of me being a
meatsack with messy emotions and morality, it was tough. My first action was to
inform the crews of both ships, along with a strict order 
not
 to discuss
the situation with the civilians, including the science staff. Next, I ordered those
civilians aboard the Dutchman transferred back to 
Valkyrie
, knowing they
must be sick of bouncing between the ships like ping-pong balls. The cover
story we gave them was that we discovered the wormhole to Earth was
unexpectedly going to take several months to become stable, so we were taking
them to a nice planet to wait. For those who protested they wanted to remain
aboard the ships, I explained that we also needed to stretch our food supply by
growing crops on a planet. The civilians were pissed off and they bitched about
every little thing, so it was really no different from any military deployment.

The
truth was, 
Valkyrie
 was going to fly around the galaxy, so Skippy could
talk with local wormhole networks and make certain that the other wormholes he
requested to move were also booting up. We needed a string of new wormholes to
make a shortcut from Earth to the super-duty wormhole that connected way out to
the Sculptor dwarf galaxy. After we confirmed the shortcut wormholes would soon
be open, we would fly to the Beta site and drop off the civilians. Most of the
STARs were transferred to the 
Flying Dutchman
, for a reason I will
explain later, while half of the Commandos were assigned to 
Valkyrie
, to
keep the civilians under control. It was a dirty job, but someone had to do it.
The civilians would be uncomfortable and angry, but they would be alive. It was
the best I could do under the crappy circumstances. Chang would take the 
Dutchman

to the far end of Backstop and wait there for 
Valkyrie
 to return. If we
did not return, he was to take his ship through, and do whatever he could to
bring people to the super-duty wormhole. Without Skippy, Nagatha couldn’t open
that wormhole, so our Plan ‘B’ assumed that 
Valkyrie
 had only been
delayed.

There
was no Plan ‘C’. Without Skippy, it was impossible for either of our ships to
get to the planet we call Club Skippy.

So,
to recap, I had made another brilliant, inventive, clever and well-intended
decision, that backfired on us and would likely doom my home planet to
destruction.

I
was lying to innocent people who deserved better.

Oh,
and I was still concealing from our crew, the uncomfortable truth that Skippy
had bailed on us.

Yay,
me.

I 
suck
.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY SIX

 

Our
Jeraptha guest requested to talk with me, so I invited him to my office. Cadet
Yula Fangiu was technically a prisoner of war rather than a guest, and his
movement around the ship was restricted to keep him away from sensitive areas.
But mostly, he could go anywhere he wanted, and the greatest danger was from
humans being startled if they came around a corner and saw him suddenly.

I
felt bad that we had to take him away from his home, his people. We were very
fortunate that Fangiu was treating his captivity as a grand adventure. After
all, he knew incredible secrets, though we were careful not to tell him too
much. Basically, I had authorized the crew to tell him only information that
would be obvious, for when and 
if
 we were ever able to return him to his
people.

The
problem was the ‘if’ part of that statement. We could only take the risk of
returning the cadet if our secret had already been exposed, and in that case,
our homeworld would be radioactive slag, and our ships would be on the run far
outside the galaxy. Making a special trip back to the hostile Milky Way galaxy,
just to return one Jeraptha and one Ruhar, would not be a good use of scarce
resources.

I
hadn’t said that to any of our prisoners. They were smart, they could figure
out their most likely futures by themselves.

 

“Colonel
Bishop?” Fangiu called from the doorway of my office.

“Come
in, Cadet,” I stood up and gestured for him to sit down on the couch, the only
piece of furniture that would be comfortable for his frame. The Jeraptha had
four legs and a long torso, or maybe it was called a ‘thorax’. They could run
on just their back two legs when they wanted to go fast, but normally they
walked on all four. That fact had nearly caused an interstellar incident, when
some of the children had pleaded for him to play ‘horsey’. They wanted to ride
on his back! The adults in the recreation center just about had a heart attack,
anticipating a terrible inter-species insult, but Fangiu had 
laughed
.
Unfortunately, that had frightened the children, for the laugh of a Jeraptha
sounded like two rusty shipping containers mating. There was pandemonium in the
rec center, children running around screaming, the adults trying to restore
order, and the poor Jeraptha embarrassed that he had scared anyone. A couple
children tried to imitate his laugh, because they thought it was funny rather
than scary, and Fangiu played along. He then crouched down so a girl could
climb on his back, and he gently walked around the rec center, except the girl
didn’t want him to be gentle, she wanted 
fun
. So, he bucked like a bronco,
possibly having more fun than the little girl did.

Anyway,
Fangiu was a frequent and popular visitor to the rec center, the civilians were
fascinated by him and the stories he told about his people. 

The
only problem with Fangiu being aboard was that, as a Jeraptha, gambling was
practically a religion for him. He pestered the adults to bet on anything and
everything, to the point where he encouraged the children to race around the
ship. Then the children started betting with each other, using food as currency.
We had to put a stop to 
that
.

“How
are you? I won’t ask about the food,” I said with a sour face.

“I
am fine, Colonel,” he smiled, his mandibles curving and his antennas twitching.
“The food is not bad, I’ve had worse.”

“Do
your people have something like our MREs?” I gestured to the pouch on my desk.
My lunch that day was an Australian Army version of an MRE, it was supposed to
be chicken curry. That was better than the deep-fried wallaby that I expected,
when I saw the Australian flag on the pouch.

OK,
yes, to my friends in Oz, or Down Under or whatever you call that continent, I
am sure that wallaby is not a common item on menus there. Truthfully, I do not
really know what a wallaby is, I have a vague notion that it looks like a small
kangaroo, but maybe I’m wrong about that. If I ever get the opportunity to be
in Australia, I will probably see that people there are not eating 
Wallaburgers
, and I can sample some of the delicious local
food.

I
am 
not
 eating Vegemite.

That
stuff is disgusting.

Fangiu’s
antennas dropped, in body language that I had learned was the Jeraptha
equivalent of a shrug. “Yes, our field rations are no better than yours,
Really, I can’t complain about the food. Your people are not eating much
better.”

He
was right about that. To stretch our food supply for all the new people aboard
our ships, the crew was getting one hot meal at dinner. Breakfast was usually a
sludge, although we did have plenty of coffee. Lunch was either another sludge,
or an MRE on alternate days. Twice a week, the crew got a hot breakfast. We
made sure the civilians had three square meals a day, and all the snacks they
wanted. After being starved and suffering from malnutrition, they needed all
the good food they could eat. Seeing children eagerly chowing down on a hot
meal in the galley, made it easier for the crew to pop the cap off a sludge and
drink it. The good news was that, with the advanced fabricators aboard 
Valkyrie

and a whole lot of user-acceptance testing, Skippy had finally nailed the taste
of chocolate. It also helped that I had issued a lifetime ban on the production
of any sort of banana flavored sludges. “You wanted to speak with me?”

“Yes,
Colonel,” his expression brightened, his eyes growing wide and his head bobbing
eagerly. It truly did make me feel bad that he was our prisoner, I 
liked

the guy. “If you will check your messages, I sent you a file?”

“You
did?” I asked, glancing at my laptop, a bit fearfully. As a Jeraptha, he was
familiar with advanced technology. Had he been able to send a virus that would
crash my laptop?

No,
that was a stupid notion. Neither Skippy nor Bilby would allow any malware
aboard the ship. Slowly opening my laptop, I asked casually “Oh, how did you do
that?” We had not issued Fangiu anything other than a zPhone, so I didn’t know
how he had created any type of file.

“Colonel
Simms gave me one of your tablets. Two tablets, actually, I had to use one of
them as a keyboard. Our character set is much larger than the twenty-six
letters of your standard alphabet.”

“Yeah,
I heard that.” Skippy had told me the beetles used ideograms, sort of like
Chinese characters. Of course, after I asked a simple question, Skippy had gone
into full Professor 
Nerdnik
 mode and bored me half to
death, comparing the Jeraptha writing system to the Japanese systems of
katakana, hiragana and kanji. Anyway, whatever. “A file, huh?” I found the file
queued up in my messages, and opened it. “Pow- 
PowerPoint
? You sent me a
presentation?”

“Yes,”
his head bobbed earnestly. “Skippy told me that human military organizations
communicate exclusively in that format?”

Crap.
Skippy had been screwing with the cadet. Although he was not wrong about how
reliant the US military is on fancy presentations. The first slide had a big
splashy title ‘Proposal for Inter-species Cooperation’. Underneath was a custom
graphic of a human figure shaking hands with a Jeraptha, although it looked
like the beetle’s claw was crushing the guy’s hand. “Thank you. Cadet, my
organization has a saying ‘BLUF’. It means Bottom Line Up Front. How about you 
tell

me what this is about, and then we can review the details?”

There
was no mistaking his disappointment. He had worked hard on the file, and he
wanted to impress me with it. To his credit, he recovered quickly. “Certainly,
Colonel,” he said with the type of nervous formality that was universal to any
low-ranking solider speaking to a senior officer. Hell, not that long ago, that
could have been 
me
 in his position. “Your main problem is that the
Maxolhx will soon arrive at your homeworld?”

I
didn’t say anything, just nodded. He had been allowed to learn that
information, because the only way we could ever send him back to his people is
if the bad guys had already arrived at Earth, and our secrets were no longer
secret. Also, every human aboard the ship knew about the threat posed by the
Maxolhx, and the only way to keep that knowledge from Fangiu would be to lock
him in his cabin. He did 
not
 know about the Broomstick wormhole opening
unexpectedly. “Yes, that is the dilemma we are dealing with.”

He
leaned forward, a gesture that some deep part of my brain instinctively saw as
threatening. Forcing myself not to flinch, I waited for him to continue. “Have
you thought about approaching my people for assistance?”

The
way he said it almost made me laugh. It reminded me of opening the front door
to see a pair of nicely-dressed people eager to save my soul. Part of me
expected him to ask if I had accepted His Holiness 
Skippiasyermuni

as my savior. Laughing would have been bad manners, so I looked at my shoes
until I could be sure I wouldn’t smile inappropriately. “Yes. We have discussed
the possibility of approaching the Rindhalu coalition. If we did, your people
would of course be our first choice,” I said. It didn’t hurt to offer him some
flattery, I felt sorry for the guy. “However, as powerful as your fleet is, it
would be foolish to expect you to defend Earth against the Maxolhx.”

I
expected him to argue, to defend the honor of his people. Instead, his head 
bobbed
 and his antennas twitched. “That is true,” he agreed,
surprising me. “The Rindhalu could defend your world, but they would be too
slow to respond. Your world would be caught in the crossfire.”

“Yeah,”
I no longer found the conversation amusing. “That was our conclusion also.
Thank you for offer-”

“Colonel,”
he interrupted me, another surprise. “My proposal,” his eyes flicked toward the
presentation on my laptop. “Is not for the Jeraptha to defend your world. That
would be bloody and ultimately futile, I am sorry to say.”

I
gave him the side-eye. “Uh, then what-”

He
plunged ahead eagerly. “Your plan is to evacuate all, or a significant portion,
of your people, from Earth?”

“More
like a small number of our people. We simply do not have the transport
resources.”

“
We

do.”

“Excuse
me?”

“My
people could provide transport ships. Hundreds, perhaps 
thousands
 of
transport ships.”

“Shit.”
Have you ever had someone tell you an idea so forehead-
slappingly

obvious, you can’t believe your own stupid brain didn’t think of it?

“Realistically,”
Fangiu did the shrug thing again with his antennas. “To be of any use, our
transport ships would have to arrive before the Maxolhx reach Earth, so we
would need to move quickly,”

“Yeah,
that’s,” my brain isn’t as slow as Skippy says it is. OK, 
sometimes
 my
brain isn’t that slow. Right away I saw major holes in his idea. Like,
involving the Jeraptha might have been a decent idea, 
before
 we learned
about Broomstick. Now, there was no time for anyone to help us, before the
Maxolhx arrived at Earth. “The moment we even talked to your 
leadership,

the clock would start. No way could they keep something like this secret for
long, if at all.”

That
offended him. “I can assure you, my people-”

“It’s
not just the Jeraptha I am concerned about,” I explained. “No matter how good
your communications security is, I have to assume the Rindhalu can read your
message traffic.”

He
looked at me, his mandibles drooping.

“So,”
I continued. “Any rescue fleet would consist only of whatever transport ships
are available immediately, for a long voyage.” He didn’t know about the
wormhole shortcut Skippy had created, and he didn’t need to know. “Soon as the
Rindhalu hear about the rescue effort, they would put pressure on your
leadership to recall the ships. No, I’m sorry. Good thinking, it’s just not
practical.”

“We
could 
try
,” he pleaded.

“I’ll
think about it, OK?” Pulling the laptop closer to me, I gestured at it. “We
should discuss this again, after I review your presentation?”

 

It
sucked to let Fangiu down like that, after he worked so hard on his slides. To
make sure I wasn’t missing another obvious factor, I told Chang and Simms and
Smythe and others about the Jeraptha cadet’s idea, and they kicked it around,
bringing Skippy and Nagatha into the discussion. Everyone agreed it was a good
notion, but not practical. Approaching the Jeraptha would expose our secret,
without any guarantee they would help us, or could help us in any useful way.
The transport ships would be racing the Maxolhx to Earth. Skippy said we had to
include thirty to forty days to adapt Jeraptha ships to carry humans, plus time
to load them. Sixty to seventy days, minimum, and the whole time we would be
looking over our shoulders for Maxolhx warships to jump in and hammer the
transports.

It
was just no good.

I
told Cadet Fangiu we appreciated the effort and for trying to help, and that he
should keep thinking. Who knows? Maybe his alien perspective would dream up a
wild-ass idea that mushy human brains couldn’t conceive of.

I
wasn’t betting on it.

 

 

The
discussion with Cadet Fangiu was ultimately not useful, in terms of helping us
bring people from Earth to the Beta site, but something about what the beetle
said bothered me.

Of
course, I thought of it in the middle of the freakin’ night. Checking my
zPhone, I saw it was a little after 0400. Should I get another ninety minutes
of sleep, or get up now and talk to Skippy? If I waited, I might forget what I
wanted to ask him.

As
a compromise, I made a quick note on my phone’s notepad app, then rolled over.

Sleep
is wonderful.

Like,
the 
best
.

The
alarm sounded ninety minutes later, by which time I had forgotten not only what
I wanted to ask Skippy, I had entirely forgotten that I had a question for him
at all. Automatically, I reached for my phone to check messages, and saw the
notepad app was open. Huh. What did ‘Skip talk alien?’ mean. Crap, I couldn’t
even read my own notes.

Oh,
yeah.

“Good
morning, Skippy,” I said after I came out of the bathroom.

“Hey,
Joe. Good morning to you. Wow, you are unusually energetic for so early in the
morning.”

“This
isn’t early to a soldier. Besides, I got a solid seven hours of sleep.”

“Seven
and a 
half
,” he corrected me.

“Bonus.
I got a question for you.”

“Before
your first cup of coffee? I am impressed. You seem like you have extra energy,
I expected that latest bad news would have you depressed.”

“I’m
not depressed, Skippy. What I am is pissed off, and frustrated.”

“I
can understand you being frustrated. This mission was supposed to be a quick
and easy pleasure cruise beyond the galaxy. A couple months out to the Beta site
and back. Instead, Operation Endless Futility has dragged on for-”

“
Endless
Futility
? When did we-”

“OK,
fine,” he huffed. “Should we call it Operation Infinite Screwups?”

“No.”

“Enduring
Clusterfuck?”

“No!”

“How
about Aimless Flailing?”

That
got me mad. “Those names are not-”

“They
all describe the way we have been lurching from one crisis to another out
here.”

“Earth is not dead 
yet
, beer can.”

“Joe,
I don’t want to say your homeworld is doomed, but the dolphins just 
said
 ‘Thanks for all the fish’.”

“
What
?”

“Ugh.
Simms is right. Sometimes I don’t even know why I bother talking to you.”

“Can
we get back to the reason I called you?”

“I’m
listening,” he said.

“You
have been talking with Cadet Fangiu, and with our Ruhar guest. How?”

“Um.
Well, I think of something I want to say,” he explained slowly. “Then my matrix
translates that into electrical impulses in the ship’s intercom system, which-”

“I
know that, asshole. My question is, how are you allowed to talk with them? You
are restricted from talking with spacefaring species, something like that,
right?”

“Oh.
That is actually a good question. The answer should be obvious, which you would
know if you were actually awake.”

“How
about you tell me while I get dressed, then I will get coffee?”

“Deal.
Remember, numbskull, I am technically restricted from 
revealing
 myself,
or initiating contact with, any intelligent species who might become a threat
to all the junk the Elders left behind. Our guests are already aboard the ship,
and they know about me, so there isn’t anything to gain by me not talking with
them.”

“OK.
I figured it was something like that.”

“That
is only part of the explanation. Mostly, I have been working my way around many
of the bogus restrictions, since I reorganized my matrix after we left the
Roach Motel.”

“Is
there any hope you can free yourself completely, do stuff like use weapons and
fly the ship?”

“Sorry,
no. Not yet, anyway. Those are baseline restrictions; I suspect it will be very
difficult to get around those limits.”

“OK,
well, I’m glad you can talk with our guests.”

“Me
too. Sometimes I get tired of dumbing everything down, when I talk with
monkeys.”

“Thank
you 
so
 much, Skippy,” I flipped a middle finger at his avatar.

“Ah,
don’t be insulted. The Ruhar and Jeraptha aren’t a whole lot smarter than you.
Of course, I am judging intelligence by my standard, which is impossible for 
anyone

to meet.”

“Please
remind me never to talk with you first thing in the morning.”

“Hey,

you
 called 
me
.”

“Thus
proving I am a dumb monkey. Goodbye, Skippy.”

 

 

Planetary
Administrator Baturnah Logellia found a surprise when she returned to her
office, from a brief meeting. A group of her fellow citizens wanted a permit to
build a resort in the human-occupied area of the southern continent. She had
listened politely, asking why the group did not include any of the human
partners they were supposedly working with, and promised to have a member of
her staff fly down to inspect the proposed project. Her next meeting was with
the capital city’s water commissioner, to discuss how the growing population of
the planet was straining the supply of drinking water.

She
anticipated 
much
 fun during that meeting.

It
was a surprise, therefore, to walk down the corridor toward her office, and see
a military security force outside her door. “Ton?” She asked her aide, who was
waiting for her with a pained and anxious expression on his face. “What is
going on?”

“Commodore
Sequent is here, about an urgent matter,” the aide explained. His anxiety was
about having to reschedule the water commissioner, not about whatever Sequent
wished to discuss. “He did not state the purpose of the meeting, we-”

“Ton,”
she patted his arm. “That will be fine. I will let you know soonest,” and with
that, she stepped into her office and the door slid closed behind her. “Good
morning, Commodore,” she smiled. It was a genuine smile, not the forced
expression she plastered on her face for most guests. “Or should I address you
as Admiral-select? Congratulations on your upcoming promotion.”

“Commodore
will be fine, Baturnah,” he laughed easily. “It is good to see you again.”

She
sat down, noting the yellow light above the door was glowing. The room had been
locked down to prevent anyone from listening to the conversation. “Whether it
is good to see 
you
, depends on why you are here,” she replied
truthfully. The previous week’s intelligence briefing included a rumor that the
Thuranin were considering a strike against the human-occupied area of the
planet, because the little green cyborgs were in a panic about the potential
threat represented by the Alien Legion. The battlegroup orbiting overhead was
scheduled to be reinforced by a cruiser squadron, and a Jeraptha heavy cruiser
had been spotted lurking on the outskirts of the system. Having spent her entire
life under constant threat of attack, she felt no more or less concerned than
usual. “What is this about?”

“This
is somewhat unusual,” he licked his incisors, a nervous habit.

“Another
threat?”

“Not
exactly. Not directly. It could become a problem for you.”

“Please,
just tell me.”

“The
humans have a saying that is particularly appropriate in this situation. You
are 
not
 going to believe this.” He lifted the paper-thin tablet from the
desk, and tapped it to awaken the display. It showed an image, the battered
face of a human male.

A human
she recognized. “Oh,” she gasped, a hand going to her mouth. “Is that- It can’t
be. Where?”

Sequent
turned the tablet around to examine the photo again, then set the tablet back
on the desk, display up. “The Thuranin intercepted one of our courier ships
recently, they sent this photo, along with DNA data. They are demanding to know
the identity of this human.”

“That
is 
Joseph Bishop
,” she said with confidence. Most humans all looked the
same to her, but she had seen that one often enough for his face to be burned
into her memory. “He is dead, why do the-”

“The
Thuranin don’t think so.”

“Bishop
is 
alive
?”

“Apparently,
yes.”

“How?
Where has he been all these years?”

“
That

is the question I am here to find answers to. The Thuranin want Bishop to
answer for unspecified crimes, which means,” one side of the commodore’s mouth
twitched upward in a smile. “He kicked their asses, apparently.”

“
How
?”

“According
to the Thuranin, who got their info from the Kristang, Bishop was part of an
Alien Legion Commando force that raided a planet called Rakesh Diwalen.”

Logellia
looked at him blankly, and he shrugged.

“I
had to look it up,” he admitted. “Never heard of the place. Once I saw the
fleet intel report, I know why. This planet is completely unimportant, except
for one detail we didn’t know about until the Thuranin contacted us. We already
knew the Kristang took humans from Earth for medical experiments. We 
thought

all those unfortunate people were brought to the staging world that the human
Expeditionary Force designated ‘Camp Alpha’. Now we know some of the human
subjects were brought to this Rakesh place, at least several hundred of them.
Most of them,” he avoided her eyes as he delivered the news, “were children.”

“Those
cruel bastards,” she spat.

“It
gets worse. After we took back Gehtanu, the Kristang saw little value to
maintaining a group of human test subjects. The prisoners on Rakesh were mostly
left to fend for themselves. We don’t have details, but our guess is, most of
the humans died during captivity.”

“How
is Bishop involved? Was 
he
 also being held there? How did he get there?”

“He
was being held there, but by the Thuranin, not by the Kristang.” He realized it
was time to skip over the background info, and get to the heart of the matter.
“Like I said, according to the Kristang, Bishop was part of an Alien Legion
Commando force that recently raided Rakesh to rescue the prisoners. The
Kristang claimed that they defeated the raid and crushed the attacking force.
Of course they would say that,” his tight smile made another appearance. In the
happy circumstance that the Kristang were ever rendered extinct, the last
surviving member of the warrior caste would boast that he was actually winning
a tremendous victory, until his final breath. “It is not clear what happened,
of course the Thuranin only told us what they want us to know, we have to read
between the lines. Most likely, the raid was successful, but Bishop was
captured.”

“Why
are the Thuranin involved? This sounds like a minor action between the Kristang
and,” she tilted her head. “
We
 were not part of the raid, were we?”

He
shook his head emphatically. “We were not. The Thuranin care because someone
blew up one of their cruisers.”

She
whistled surprise. “
That
 is not something the Alien Legion is capable of
doing.”

“No,
it is not. The Thuranin claim that one of our battleships was detected in the
area. I can assure you, all of our capital ships are accounted for,” he
declared with more confidence than he felt. The Ruhar fleet had a clandestine
section of the intelligence service, a group known for taking actions that most
of the fleet leadership was not aware of. Still, for anyone to secretly operate
a 
battleship
 defied belief. The operating costs of such a ship would be
nearly impossible to hide in even a secret budget.

“If
we are not responsible, then who is?”

“That
is what the Thuranin want to know, and why I am here. Our leadership wants to
know what the 
hell
 is going on, and they want to know 
now
. If the
raid was an Alien Legion operation, it was not authorized by us.”

“That
you know of,” she commented. Everyone knew the fleet had a Dirty Tricks unit.

“Believe
me, that possibility is being investigated. Baturnah, you really had no idea
that Bishop was still alive? You work with humans regularly. There were never
any rumors?”

“There
are 
always
 rumors. Conspiracy theories. The most popular theory is that
back when Bishop allegedly stole a dropship and left this planet, he was really
part of a secret operation conducted by 
us
.”

Sequent
nodded. “I have heard those rumors. Fleet intelligence has denied the whole
thing. It doesn’t make sense anyway. What could a small group of 
humans

accomplish in one dropship? They should not even have been able to fly it.”

“What
I can tell you is, all the rumors I have ever heard state that Bishop is 
dead
.
He has to be, he hasn’t been seen or heard from for years. None of the humans
who left with him have ever been seen. The Thuranin only mentioned him? None of
the others?”

“Just
Bishop.”

“You
said he was being held by the Thuranin, and now they are looking for him? He
escaped?”

“Apparently,
yes.”

She
snorted. “If Bishop conducted a successful raid, destroyed a Thuranin warship,
and escaped, then I hope he is fighting on 
our
 side,” she laughed.

Sequent
was not smiling. “Administrator, I am afraid this is no laughing matter. My
superiors want answers. After I leave your office, I am going to meet the human
leadership here, to ask some very tough questions.”

“The
person you should be asking, is Emily Perkins.”

“She
is, busy, as you know.” The Alien Legion, not content with throwing Kristang
society into disarray by their action on the planet they called ‘Squidworld’,
had kept up their momentum by almost immediately launching another operation.
“Another team will be questioning Perkins, when the time is right. Do you have
any advice for me, about dealing with humans?”

She
thought for a moment. “Be straightforward. We don’t always interpret their
facial expressions and body language correctly. “I must warn 
you,

humans are smarter than they look. Don’t expect cooperation. The humans do not
trust us, they have good reasons for that.”

Sequent
looked away. “One more thing,” he turned back toward her. “Investigators will
be questioning 
you
, tomorrow. You had extensive contact with Bishop.”

“I
did. That was 
before 
his action at the Launcher complex.”

“Regardless.
I was not supposed to tell you.”

“I
appreciate the warning. Commodore, I have nothing to hide. Until today, I
assumed Bishop was dead. Really, I have not thought about him in years,” she
said. That was not true. Every time she met with Perkins, she had at least a
fleeting thought of Bishop, for he is why Perkins first came to the attention
of Baturnah Logellia. “I assure you, if it is true that Bishop is alive, I am
as eager to learn his story as you are.”

“
If

he is alive?”

She
smiled again. “Surely, you have considered this is all a disinformation
campaign by the Thuranin? It is a rather unlikely story.”

Sequent
had 
not
 considered that possibility. It made him wonder if his superiors
knew 
something
 they had not told him. “What would be
the point of making us chase after a long-dead human?”

“I
don’t know. Maybe 
that
 is what you should be investigating. Unless you
believe that one human is so dangerous that the Thuranin are afraid of him?”

No,
Sequent realized. He did 
not
 believe that. His day, which had begun
badly, had now grown immeasurably more complicated.

He 
hated

complications.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY SEVEN

 

“
Shiiiiit
,” I said while leaning back in my office chair.
Simms and Smythe were seated across the desk from me, and Chang was
participating via hologram. His disembodied but very realistic head floated a
few inches off the top of the desk, next to Skippy’s avatar. “The way I see it,
we need to go back to a Maxolhx relay station. We 
have
 to know if they
are aware of dormant wormholes opening, especially about Broomstick. We do know
the kitties sent out a Flash-priority message, for their clients to watch for
odd wormhole behavior.”

“Joe,
we have to balance that against the risk involved.” Chang said. “If we learn
that the Maxolhx know about Broomstick, what would we do with the information?”

“I
see your point. We 
are
 going to Earth.” Chang, Simms and Smythe all
nodded their agreement. “The difference is timing. Do we have time to modify
the 
Dutchman
 to carry the two troop carriers? I don’t like the idea of
the 
Dutchman
 hanging in low orbit while we fabricate and install
platforms to attach the 
Qishan
 and the 
Dagger
.”

Smythe
answered the question for me. “We should not do that in any case, Sir. The
troop carriers are capable of making the jump out to Backstop, assuming it is
in the proper position?” His eyes focused on Skippy.

“It
is,” Skippy’s hat bobbed back and forth. “The network confirmed it followed my
instructions. The Earth end of Backstop will be centered roughly eight light-hours
from the Sun, at an inclination of seventy-three degrees above the plane where
the major planets orbit. Joe, you wanted Backstop to be just beyond the orbit
of Pluto, but-”

“That
was just a suggestion. I figured that might be too close.”

“It
is too close. The figure-eight pattern will bring some of the emergence points
to within less than six point three light-hours from the Sun, but they could
also be up to a quarter lightyear away. I’m sorry, that is just how the
wormholes function. If emergence points are too close together, they can damage
the underlying fabric of local spacetime. Also, I had to position the
figure-eight above the plane of the ecliptic, to avoid the wormhole interacting
with comets in the scattered disc. Otherwise, the wormhole could cause comets
to be thrown inward, and possibly collide with your homeworld.”

“Yeah,
I saw that movie,” I shuddered. “Let’s not do that. Smythe, I get your point
and you’re right. We can attach the transport ships to the 
Dutchman
,
after they go through Backstop. Uh, Skippy, refresh my memory,” I snapped my
fingers. “How far is it from the other end of Backstop, to the next wormhole
along your shortcut route? I know the wormholes move around,” I added to
prevent him 
nerding
 out with too many details. “Just
tell me the distance between baselines.”

“Six
point six lightyears to the next wormhole. That’s the best I could do, those
two wormholes are on different local networks.”

“Damn
it. OK, I was hoping the transports could get through the next wormhole on
their own, that’s not going to happen.” Even with Skippy tweaking the crappy
original Kristang jump drives of the 
Qishan
 and 
Dagger
, they
could barely travel a single lightyear on their own. “We have to plan for the 
Dutchman

to be worked on after the transports go through Backstop outbound. Is there any
way we can start modifying the 
Dutchman
 now?”

“We
are, Joe,” Skippy sighed. “As much as I can. The fabricators are not the issue,
we need the proper materials. Mining asteroids out here would take too long, we
need materials made on Earth. The monkeys there did a 
decent
job manufacturing components
 when we rebuilt the 
Dutchman
 in
orbit, but your industrial base is still only capable of making simple items. Even

wth
 the resources of Earth, turning the 
Dutchman

back into a star carrier is not going to be a quick process, you know that?”

“Understood.
OK, we are back to the original question. When we get to Earth, will we even
have time to load the transport ships, or do we need to take whoever we can
aboard our two ships, and run?” With the people we rescued from Rikers, the passenger
capacity of our ships was already stretched. Though 
Valkyrie
 was a huge
ship, most of the space was filled with machinery. The actual pressure hull where
people could live was less than one-quarter of the ship’s volume, and because
Maxolhx ships are highly automated, their life support systems only had
capacity for a relatively small crew. Skippy had upgraded oxygen recycling and
other life-support systems as best he could, they were now at capacity, and we
could bring aboard maybe three hundred people for a short flight, in very
cramped conditions? It was unacceptable, but we couldn’t change the facts.

Crap.
Even if we could cram people into the 
Dagger
 and the 
Qishan
, we
were talking about bringing only several thousand people on each trip out to
the Beta site.

“Sir,”
Simms spoke. “We won’t know that until we get to Earth. UNEF was supposed to be
setting up both ships to bring people to the Beta site. They could be ready, or
UNEF could have tried to convert them to warships.”

“That
is another reason we need to know how much time we have before the Maxolhx
arrive. That’s it,” I slapped the table. “We are going to hit one of their
relay stations for info.”

Skippy
took off his hat and scratched his head. “Might I remind you that is not going
to be easy? We are a victim of our own success. The kitties think their whole
pixie technology is compromised, so they have stopped using them. Their backup
procedure for exchanging message traffic requires 
physical
 verification,
Joe. Usually, Maxolhx courier ships are automated, but now the kitties are
assigning crews of three.”

“What
do you mean by physical verification?”

“It’s
simple, but a pain in the ass. A kitty needs to go aboard a relay station,
allow the station’s AI to scan and verify biomarkers, then the kitty needs to
plug an encryption device into a slot, and then it has to input a code that is changed
several times an hour. If the authentication fails, the station not only locks
that kitty out, it freezes all data transfer for roughly half an hour. If the
verification fails a second time, the station self-destructs to prevent itself
from being infiltrated.”

“Shit.
Wonderful,” I groaned.

Simms
asked a question that I hadn’t even considered. “Skippy, how do you know the
procedures, if you were not able to communicate with a relay station?”

“I
know,” Skippy explained without his usual snarkiness, “because when I tried to
use pixies to hit that relay station for info, it basically replied with ‘Error
405: Method Not Allowed’. Then it informed me that the entire system of pixies
was no longer trusted, and there is a new process for exchanging data. That was
the 
only
 information it would give to me. The station’s AI was snippy
about it, too, made me want to smack the damned thing,” he sniffed.

“We
appreciate your admirable restraint, old chap,” Smythe said with dry British
humor.

Of
course, Skippy was clueless about the subtle insult. “Thank 
you
, old
chap.”

“Skippy,”
I said. “This is the part when you tell us that you are 
so
 awesome, you
can fool the station’s AI, using some fancy 
handwavium

bullshit or whatever.”

“Um,
while it is undeniable that I 
am
 incredibly awesome, the answer is 
NO
,
dumdum. Jeez Louise, don’t you think I would have told you that?”

“Oh.”
Duh, I told myself. Of course Skippy would not have missed an opportunity to
brag about himself. “I thought you were doing your usual thing of telling us
how impossible something is, then how easy it is for 
you
 to do it.”

“Nope.
Maxolhx technology is crude compared to me, but they do have excellent
information security measures. Remember, the kitties design their infosec to be
secure from the Rindhalu. They are paranoid about the spiders hacking into
their data.”

“Um,
could you provide,” I held up a thumb and forefinger with a tiny gap between
them. “A 
little
 more detail on that, please?”

“Certainly,
here it is: I. Can’t. Do. 
It.
 I told you, a kitty
needs to be in the scanner booth. A real, live Maxolhx, with all the
appropriate implants and biomarkers. It can’t be a bot covered with fake 
fur,
 in case you were thinking about that.”

“No,”
I lied, because that was exactly what I was thinking.

“My
full awesomeness could take effect after we get through the door,” he boasted.
“Once I am in, I can program a backdoor into the station’s AI, and set that
malicious code to propagate to other stations on the network. Unfortunately, I
can’t get us through the doorway the 
first
 time. So,” Skippy looked from
one of us to the other. “I hope my explanation has ended any foolish notions of
getting information from a Maxolhx relay station.”

I
looked at Smythe. “What do you think?”

He
looked at the ceiling for a moment. “It can be done.” 

“No
it 
can 
not
,” Skippy protested. “Were you
monkeys even 
listening
 to me?”

“We
were listening. Do you listen to 
yourself
?” I asked.

“Um,
hmm. 
Okaaaay
,” he said slowly. “Let me review what I
said. No. Nope, nothing I said should give you any hope of-”

“We
can do this,” Smythe explained, “because we already have done everything
needed.”

Skippy
stared at him in disbelief. “
What
 are you talking ab-”

“Uh!”
I held up a finger to shush him. “We need to disable and board a Maxolhx ship.
Already done 
that
,” I made an imaginary checkmark in the air. “Do those
courier ships have a set schedule, or do they fly around randomly?”

“A
set schedule. Hmm, OK. You want to capture a courier ship, that shouldn’t be 
too

difficult. Then Smythe takes a STAR team to breach the hull, and capture the
crew alive?”

“Correct,”
Smythe said with a hint of a smile. He was already planning the boarding
operation in his head.

“May
I guess the next step in your lunatic scheme?” Skippy asked.

“Please
do,” I encouraged him.

“With
possibly three, live Maxolhx prisoners, you will threaten to kill the others,
if one of them doesn’t give us access to a relay station.”

“
No
,”
I made a knife-hand gesture. “We will not do that. We are 
soldiers
,
Skippy, not thugs.”

“You
are also Pirates, Joe.”

“Regardless
of some of the sketchy shit we’ve done out here, we are soldiers,” I insisted.
“We have a code of conduct. That’s the difference between an army and a mob.”
Smythe nodded when I said that, and it felt good for him to acknowledge my
professionalism.

“That
is good to hear,” Skippy tilted his head at me. “Then I do not understand your
plan. Trust me, the Maxolhx will not willingly give you access to a relay
station, even if you offer a lifetime supply of catnip.”

“No
catnip needed, Skippy,” I grinned and sat back in my chair. “Remember in the
Roach Motel, we had Mister Snuggles as a guest?”

“I
remember he was a 
terrible
 guest,” Skippy grumbled. “Snuggles tried to
kill the entire crew, do you remember that?”

“I
do. Do you remember making him dance to ‘
Funkytown
’?”

“
Hee
 
hee
, yes, that was freakin’ 
hilarious
.
Until Joe Buzzkill made me stop.”

“Yeah,
well, maybe I was a bit hasty about that. So, can you do that again?”

“Make
a kitty dance to ‘
Funkytown
’? Ugh, Joe. There 
so

many danceable tunes out there, I don’t want to repeat my-”

“Not
dancing. Can you control a kitty, so it will open the door to a relay station for
us?”

“Sir?”
Simms arched an eyebrow. “We started a civil war. Kidnapped multiple aliens.
Recruited a Commando team without their permission. Now you propose that Skippy
take physical control of an intelligent being, force him to act against his
will?”

I
looked at Chang first. He was also uncomfortable with the subject, but he
nodded to me. “It’s not right,” I agreed. “If we had an alternative, I wouldn’t
consider it. Simms, I promise that if we do find another way to get the data we

need
, we will scratch this idea. Fair enough?”

“Fair
enough, Sir.”

“Skippy?”
I asked. “Can you do it?”

“Hmm.
Well, that is an interesting question. Let me think about it for a moment.”

“Are
you using the moment to consider the best way to insult me for suggesting a
stupid idea, or to actually consider the question?”

“Sadly,
the second thing you said. Joe, it 
might
 be possible. The problem is, I
won’t know the exact conditions inside the scanning booth, until a kitty gets
in there. If my access gets cut off, we must be prepared to jam the station’s
transmitter, and nuke it.”

“We
can do that,” I assured him. “Skippy, we need a list of courier ships to hit
first.”

“
Hoo
-boy. We don’t have much time, Joe.”

“Then
we need to get moving.”

“I
can 
guess
 where we might find a courier ship. They fly scheduled routes,
but having to bring crews aboard must have screwed up the schedule.”

“Make
your best guess. Smythe,” I turned my attention to our STAR team leader.

“Yes,
Sir,” he anticipated my order. “We will study the layout of a courier ship, and
have a boarding plan ready ASAP. The timing will be a bit dodgy. No possibility
of building a mockup of a courier ship, for practice?”

“Sorry,
no,” I gave him the answer he expected. “We can’t-”

“Wait
a minute,” Skippy interrupted. “We can’t build a model of an entire courier
ship, but we don’t need to. The crew accommodation section of a courier ship is
very small. We could construct a model in a docking bay, and float it outside
to practice breaching the hull.”

“Do
it,” I instructed. “Does anyone have any objections?”

Only
Chang voiced an opinion. “Joe, I hope we’re going to keep an eye on the clock?
We can only afford to devote limited time to collecting data.”

“Yeah,
of course. If we wait too long, it will be OBE.”

Simms
shook her head. “If we wait too long, 
we
 could be OBE.”

 

 

As
Skippy suggested, we built a mockup of a courier ship’s crew section, which
easily fit inside one of our larger docking bays. To practice the boarding
operation, we attached the mockup to several dropships, to simulate the mass of
the courier ship’s forward hull, and the STAR team ran through one scenario
after another. The already-depleted STARs were down one man, due to the injury suffered
by Justin Grudzien on Rikers, and I expected Smythe would bring in some of the
Commandos. He did include Fabron’s Commandos as a backup force, but his
solution to replace Grudzien surprised me.

“You
really think she is ready?” I asked, when Smythe told me he requested Margaret
Adams be transferred from her duties aboard the 
Flying Dutchman
. “She
is-”

“Skippy
pronounced her fully recovered from her injuries,” Smythe stated.

“Recovered
physically, yes,” I agreed reluctantly.

“Colonel
Chang has high praise for her professionalism aboard the 
Dutchman
. She
trained the Commando pilots on several stations in the CIC, and volunteered to
be cross-trained to operate other systems.”

“Yes.”
I knew that from the daily reports. Also I knew Margaret had been working out
with the Commandos whenever she could. “Several of the Commandos have higher
scores on the aptitude tests. Are you sure she is the best candidate?”

“Yes.
She has a unique qualification that is not shared by any of Fabron’s team. Gunnery
Sergeant Adams participated in a boarding operation of a Maxolhx ship, when we
were acquiring ships to construct 
Valkyrie
.”

“That
was before her injury.”

“An
injury she has fully recovered from. There is no substitute for experience. Her
actions aboard the target ship were an outstanding example of your Marines
Corps motto ‘Improvise, Adapt, Overcome’.”

The
actual 
motto
 of the United States Marine Corps was ‘Semper Fidelis’, but
I knew what he meant. Marines were supposed to improvise and adapt to overcome
any obstacle, no excuses allowed. The Army taught the same lesson, using
different language. You were expected to achieve your objective, no matter what
roadblocks were thrown across your path.

Roadblocks,
like a commanding officer who was letting his personal feelings get in the way
of mission success. “Smythe, I assigned you the task of boarding a courier ship
and securing the crew, alive. Whatever tools, tactics and personnel you deem
best for the task, you have them.”

“Yes,
Sir. I did not intend to-”

“Sometimes
I need to be reminded that although we are Pirates out here, I also wear this
uniform,” I touched the U.S. Army patch on my chest. “When will your team be
ready?”

“Two
days,” he replied.

“Take
more time if you need,” I suggested. We both knew that in two days, we would
arrive at a Maxolhx relay station where Skippy expected we would find a courier
ship. Waiting for a courier ship might take a week or more, but Smythe and his
team had to be ready on Day One.

“Two
days will be sufficient, Sir,” he said, looking me straight in the eye. He knew
I worried about his gung-ho attitude, or whatever saying the British used to
describe someone who was overly enthusiastic. “The crew compartment of a courier
ship is small, there are not many variations to explore for a boarding
operation. It will be relatively straightforward.”

“Very
well,” I said with private reservations. It would have been better if he had
said ‘it 
should
 be relatively straightforward’. Saying ‘will’ was just
tempting the Universe to throw a wrench into the whole operation. “Keep me
updated on your progress.”

“You
are welcome to observe the practice sessions, Sir.”

“Right,”
I grinned. “Because having the CO looking over their shoulder is the best way
for your team to focus on their jobs. If you are satisfied with their
readiness, then I am too.”

 

Joe
Bishop was not the only person aboard our two ships who had reservations about Adams
joining the boarding party. When Adams announced she had been selected to join
the boarding party, Gunnery Sergeant Lamar Greene took a half-second too long
to plaster a grin on his face and offer her a high five. His hand hung in the
air, awkwardly.

Margaret’s
own hand was in the air when she pulled it back. Narrowing her eyes, she stared
at him. “You’re not happy for me?”

“No,
I am. Really.”

She
lowered her hand until it was clenched by her side. “You don’t 
sound

happy.”

“Margaret,
I’m happy if you’re happy. I’m happy for 
you
.”

Her
arms folded across her chest. “I know when someone is happy for me, and when
they’re not.”

“Why
are you doing this?”

“Because
I thought you were my friend, and friends should-”

Lamar
did not like hearing her refer to him as a ‘friend’. Since he came aboard, they
had grown close again, renewing their past intimacy in an emotional if not yet
physical manner. He wanted to be closer, seeing her with the Merry Band of Pirates
had made him wonder what the 
hell
 he had been thinking when he walked
away from her, back on Earth. They were not only friends, he knew that. She
needed time. Time away from Bishop. Lamar had noticed that since the Colonel
returned from Rikers, Adams had not spent much, if any, time with the man.
Whatever had been going on between them, it was over. Or, it 
should
 be
over. Margaret was smarter than that, and Bishop should have been smarter. Bishop
should have done the honorable thing and just left her alone, damn it. Lamar
got pissed off whenever he thought about it. What the hell was the Colonel
thinking?

“I 
do

support you,” he told her. “When I asked why you’re doing this, I didn’t
mean 
this
,” he pointed a finger at her, then himself. “Why are you
pushing to go on the boarding op?”

Her
expression instantly told him 
that
 was the wrong thing to say. “You
don’t think I can do it?”

“That
is 
not
 what I said. You have been training with us, not with the STARs,”
his lips twitched when he said ‘STARs’. The rivalry between the Tier One team
of the Pirates, and the Commandos from Paradise, was unspoken but intense. Everyone
knew the STARs were the frontline outfit, first to fight, given the most important
taskings. Some of the Commandos might qualify to join a STAR team, most of them
would not.

The
fact that Margaret had been a STAR before her serious injury was a subtle
source of friction between them, and Lamar knew that was his fault. She rarely
ever mentioned her time with Smythe’s team, and never boastfully. Never to put
him down. Still, she had been a Tier One operator before, he had not.

Her
arms were still folded across her chest. “What are you asking?”

“I’m
not asking whether you can do the job. You have 
done
 it, you have
nothing to prove, Margaret. I’m asking, are you pushing yourself before you’re
ready?” Her expression softened slightly, then he had to open his big mouth
again. “Are you being honest with yourself?”

She
stiffened again. “Colonel Smythe says I am ready. You’re right, Lamar, I have
done this. I have conducted a boarding operation of an enemy vessel. I
survived, and I 
kicked ass
. The STARs need my experience.”

“You
don’t have to be- You don’t need to rub my nose in it. I know I’ll be sitting
on the bench.”

It
was her turn to be defensive. “Lamar, I didn’t mean it that way. You won’t be
on the 
bench,
 the Commandos are the reserves for this
op. If we get into trouble, we need you to bail our asses out of there.
Besides, I’m not going in first. Smythe has me tagged as the heavy artillery.”
Once again, her role would be a combot operator, though this time, she would
not be in the lead. The goal was to capture, not kill, the enemy crew. If she
had to go into action, something had gone horribly wrong.

He
grinned. “You trust me to bail your ass out?”

“Should
I?” She arched an eyebrow, and her arms were not hugged quite so tightly to her
chest. “A girl has to be careful, when a man talks about her booty.”

“Hey,”
he held up his hands. “I’m talking about combat 
operations,

I don’t know where 
your
 dirty mind is going.”

Margaret
held up a hand, and he patted it in a gentle high five. “You be careful out
there, Gunny Greene,” she tapped a finger against his chest.

“
You

be careful, Gunny Adams. I’m only in danger if you get into trouble you can’t
handle.”

“We
will both be careful, then. You- Oh.” She turned her head. “Time for the
exercise to start. Suit up, Marine.”

“
You

suit up, Marine.”

 

We
jumped in, fourteen light-seconds from the relay station. Other than a very
faint residual jump signature from a Maxolhx ship, the area was clear. Skippy
estimated the signature was from four days ago, which was unlucky for us. That
relay station was not located along a well-traveled route, and traffic had been
reduced by our ghost ship attacks, so we expected that station would not see
much traffic other than courier ships. If the ship that visited recently was a
courier, there might not be another one passing by for weeks. It was also
unlucky that the signature was so degraded by time, it was impossible to tell
the type of ship, other than it was distinctively left by a Maxolhx ship.

Not
knowing when his people would go into action, and wanting to keep their skills
fresh, Smythe requested that we launch the mockup. We wrapped the mockup in a
stealth field so it wouldn’t be seen by prying eyes. The station would of
course see us launching it, but the station would not survive long enough to
report what it had seen. That was a potential glitch in our plan; if anything
other than a courier ship jumped in to exchange data with the station, we would
have to destroy that ship and the station, then fly to another station to start
over.

The
Army pounds into our heads that we should train the way we fight. The mockup
would be in a stealth field, but the actual target would not. I had heartburn
about that, both because it would make training sessions less realistic, and
because the utter darkness inside a stealth field increased the risk of
collisions for dropships operating in the environment. Smythe assured me that
because deep interstellar space was pretty much in darkness anyway, the stealth
field would not make much of a difference. In fact, he wanted his team to train
in conditions that were more difficult than the actual boarding operation, and
I had to agree with him. Skippy would be closely monitoring the exercises to
assure nobody crashed into anyone, so I approved the exercises, with a limit of
two hours per day away from the ship. That left a one-in-twelve chance that a
courier ship would jump in while Smythe and Fabron had their teams away from
the ship. One in twelve is about eight percent, or a ninety-two percent chance
it would 
not
 happen. Those are damned good odds, even the Jeraptha would
agree.

Except,
the Universe hates Joe Bishop.

 

“That
was 
outstanding
, congratulations, everyone,” Smythe announced in a clipped,
oh-so-British tone. An exercise had just concluded, a run-through of a scenario
where everything went sideways for the STAR team, and the Commandos had to come
in to rescue them. With only two hours a day for practice exercises, they had
mostly been running the quick, relatively easy and most-likely scenarios. Run
them for eight days in a row, until everyone felt 
confident

they could latch onto the spinning wreck of the enemy ship, breach the hull,
get aboard and capture the three stunned crew. Confident they could do it with
their eyes closed, though that was not actually a joke. One scenario had the
boarding team experience a loss of external sensors, and the need to rely on
external guidance from Skippy. “We have time for one more go, let’s follow up with
something rather 
more easy
. Kapoor, Fabron, we will
run exercise-”

 

“Oh,
shit, Joe,” Skippy groaned. Looking up from the tablet I was holding, I instantly
saw why. In addition to the symbol representing 
Valkyrie
 at the center
of the display, plus symbols nearby for the mockup and the four dropships clustered
around it, we were used to seeing a red symbol for the relay station, off to
the side of the holographic display. Now there was a new symbol. A ship had
jumped in. It was a Maxolhx courier ship. How did I know that? Because the
symbol was a cat emoji, and the symbol was blue. A cat for the Maxolhx, blue
for a courier ship. At a glance, I knew we had both an opportunity, and a
problem. “Smythe?”

“We
see it, Sir,” he said with an implied ‘
Bloody hell!
’ in his voice.

“Is
your team ready to go?”

“No
time like the present,” he replied, I could tell he was distracted by typing a
recall order for his team. “Yes, we’re ready.”

“It’s
your call.” I knew that the teams deployed for an exercise with empty
magazines, but the live ammo was aboard the dropships. The STARs and Commandos
could transition from practice to combat-ready in less than a minute. “There is

no
 rush,” I reminded him. “That courier ship hasn’t launched a dropship
yet.” Skippy expected the Maxolhx crew would not be in a hurry to go aboard the
station. Their job was endlessly tedious, with stopping at relay stations the
only break in a relentless cycle of jump-recharge-jump. A dropship could not
approach a relay station, until its mother ship had identified itself and been
given preliminary authentication by the station’s AI, and that process could
take over twenty minutes.

“Understood,
Sir,” Smythe acknowledged. “Our ETA is seven minutes.”

“We
jump once all your dropships show green on their docking clamps.” Turning to
Simms, I lowered my voice. “Have the medical teams standing by.”

 

Fireball
Reed did not need to wait for an order from me, she tapped the button to
initiate a jump as soon as all four boarding team dropships were secured. 
Valkyrie

disappeared in a flash of gamma rays, and emerged practically on top of the
courier ship. Without waiting for sensors to fully reset, we fired maser cannons,
our most surgical of weapons. The high-energy beams burned through the
unprotected hull of the little courier ship, slicing away the forward section
with its cramped crew compartments. Other maser and particle-beam cannons
knocked out the ship’s reactors, severed the connection between the jump drive
and the stored energy of the capacitors, and systematically burned out every
sensor, shield generator and defensive weapon blister. After a moment to verify
the single dropship was not yet occupied, we took that out too, then a pair of
masers burned through to the center of the forward section, melting the
substrate that housed the ship’s AI.

In
the blink of an eye, the courier ship was disabled, blind and helpless. Our
weapons were de-energized and 
safed
, then Simms
signaled the boarding party dropships to launch.

Everything
went well, at first. As Skippy had anticipated, one of the enemy crew was in an
airlock when we jumped in. Because courier ships were not intended to regularly
carry a crew, they did not have a docking bay for a dropship, it had to be latched
onto the hull. To get from the ship to a dropship, the crew had to go outside, travel
a short distance along a catwalk, and access the dropship’s side door. The
dropship was a smoking 
ruin
 so we didn’t have to worry
about the crew attempting to escape that way, though Smythe did have a bit of a
complication. At least one of the enemy crew was wearing an environment suit,
and that complicated the task of locating and pinning down that rotten kitty. All
I could do was sit in 
Valkyrie’s
 command chair, try not to bite my
fingernails, and keep my mouth shut while the people outside did their jobs.

 

Margaret
Adams checked her connection to the combot for the tenth time since the
dropship latched onto the spinning forward section of the hull. That had been
the second unpleasant surprise of the operation, the separation of the forward
hull had been more violent than Skippy predicted, so the tumbling was more
severe than expected. The tumbling, as the forward section continuously fell
over its own nose and rolled side to side and flipped sideways, was still not
as bad as some of the scenarios practiced by the boarding team. All three of
the primary assault dropships latched on without delay, the only complication
being inevitable nausea as the mass of the newly-attached spacecraft made the
unpredictable tumbling even more unpredictable. There was no time for the
dropships to coordinate their actions and halt the tumbling, and the STARs were
prepared to breach the hull regardless of the shuddering and spinning of the
broken starship. Two teams, one led by Smythe and one by Kapoor, were inside
the hull within thirty seconds of the first dropship clamping solidly onto the
wreck.

Adams
waited by one of the breach points, her combot’s weapons ready but in safe mode.
It was highly unlikely she would need to do anything during the operation, the
enemy was only three unarmed or lightly-armed kitties, who were trained in
cybersecurity and not close-quarters combat. For all the jealousy she had
perceived from Greene, she probably would not do anything more than he did.
They were both standing by to provide backup, which was still better than
standing by to stand by.

 

The
first indication that anything had or even could go wrong was when she
overheard Skippy arguing with Major Kapoor on the team’s 
taclink
.

“We

know
 that, Skippy,” said the Indian STAR officer. “Where is it 
now
?”

“I
don’t know. You were supposed to keep track of it. Kitties are 
big
, how
could you lose one in such a small space?”

“It’s
not in the crew compartment area,” Kapoor insisted. “When it retreated back
through the airlock, it must have gone somewhere else. You must have missed it.”

“There
isn’t any other place to 
go
,” Skippy retorted, miffed at his awesomeness
being questioned. “It’s not outside, I’m sure of that. If it is not 
out
side,
then it must be 
in
side. Did you check all the closets?”

“There
are no- Captain Frey, take over arguing with the beer can, while I conduct a
proper search,” Kapoor ordered.

“Skippy,”
Frey tried a different approach to the problem, knowing that Skippy had a crush
on her. “
Assume
 the target is not in the crew compartments, please.
Where else could it have gone, from the airlock?”

“Well,
um, it could have gone anywhere, Katie.”

“Address
me as ‘Captain Frey’ in action, please,” she was growing frustrated. Kapoor was
right, the crew area was not large and the third Maxolhx was definitely not
anywhere in there. “I will ask the question again. Where, 
physically
,
could a being that size have gone?”

“Oh,
that’s different. We know it did not go out through the airlock, because the
outer door never opened. Assuming it is truly not in the crew compartments,
then the only other place it 
could
 have gone is into one of the maintenance
access crawlspaces.”

“
What
?”
Frey snapped. “You never told us about any crawlspaces. There aren’t any on the
model we trained on!”

“That’s
because those crawlspaces do not extend into the crew accommodations. But, if
that kitty is wearing a spacesuit, with the ship’s structure compromised, it
might have gone through a gap between internal partitions, and into a
crawlspace. It is not actually a 
crawl
space, no one is supposed to be
crawling around in there, I mean, it-”

“
Where

could it have gone?”

“Well,
Jeez, anywhere and everywhere. And 
nowhere
. I would have detected it.
Um, hmm. Unless it is using a personal stealth field, of course. With all the
energy conduits busted open, it is 
possible
 that I might have missed-”

“Colonel
Smythe!” Frey shouted on the open channel to send the alert. “Target Tango-1
may have a personal stealth field and could be anywhere outside the crew
compartment!”

 

That
alert threw the boarding force’s plan into chaos, so they immediately adapted. Smythe
ordered two of the dropships to detach, so they were not in danger of being
compromised or destroyed by the enemy. That included the dropship Margaret was
assigned to. As she watched the Panther race away to a safe distance, she set
the combot to scan the hull. She still had a job to do. “Skippy,” she asked.
“The crawlspace, where does it go?”

“It
branches out several times, there are-”

“Does
it lead anywhere that is not a dead-end?”

“Oh.
Well, a kitty-sized being could only go one place, unless it wanted to hide in
there. Which would be stupid, I mean, it must know-”

“Cut
the chatter. That one place it could have gone, where is it?”

“There
is a section of crawlspace that was breached when the ship broke apart. It
leads to the external hull. Hmm. Maybe it 
is
 outside. If it is in
stealth, I would not necessarily be able to detect it from here with all the
energy leaking out of-” She pivoted the combot away from the airlock it had
been guarding. “Colonel Smythe! Tango-1 is most likely outside the hull. I
recommend we launch the last dropship.”

“That
dropship is our egress bird, Adams. We need to extract the two-”

“There
will be no extraction if the Panther explodes, 
Sir
. We have a hostile
with unknown capabilities out here, and we don’t know where it is.”

Smythe
did not hesitate. “Eagle-Two,” he called the dropship. “Launch immediately.
Check that you are not carrying unexpected mass,” he added, in case the missing
alien was holding onto the Panther’s hull.

“Eagle-Two
is away,” the pilot reported, and Adams saw a sleek shape racing away. “No
hitchhikers,” the pilot confirmed.

“
Valkyrie
,
can you use the ship’s active sensors to locate Tango-1?” Adams asked.

Skippy
answered for the crew. “The active sensor pulses are too powerful to use at
this short range. They are designed to find stealthed 
starships
 at long
range. Adams would be cooked, and we would risk killing the kitty also.”

“Bloody
hell,” Smythe grunted. “How are we supposed to find an invisible enemy? 
Kapoor,
 stay here with the captives. Frey, you’re with me.”

Adams
knew it would take the STAR team a minute to get from the crew compartments to
the exterior of the hull. They couldn’t wait that long. “Skippy, the lowest
setting on the combot’s maser cannons, is it powerful enough to kill the enemy,
assuming it is in a protective suit?”

“No,
but you don’t know where to aim.” Unlike when he spoke with Bishop, the AI did
not add an implied ‘Duh’.

“I
don’t need to 
aim,
 I want to conduct recon by fire.”

“Um,
you mean you shoot blindly, hoping the enemy gives away its position by shooting
back at you?”

“Usually
that’s what it means,” she said. “Colonel Smythe? Permission to search for the
enemy using an active pulse from the combot?”

“Active
pulse?” Smythe was puzzled. “I was not aware those machines had-”

“Low-power
maser beam,” she explained.

“Ah.”
He understood. “Light it up, Gunny.”

Following
her movements, the combot’s cannons extended parallel to the hull. Invisible
microwave energy lanced out in pulses sweeping right to left. Chunks of
floating debris flared incandescent and the beams were briefly visible when
they passed through clouds of vapor and gas thrown off by the broken ship. Not
caring about additional damage to the hull, Adams directed the beams to stitch
across a pair of antennas, which glowed from the heat. The beams continued on-

No.
Something had been hiding behind one of the antennas. Quickly, she pulled the
cannons back to the right and fire poured out, striking something unseen. Then
it was 
not
 invisible, a vague shroud sparkled as it bent photons around
it. The indistinct shape turned and-

The
combot jerked as it was struck by some sort of return fire. Adams flattened
herself against the hull, red symbols lighting up on a corner of her visor as
the combot’s systems dropped offline. She tried to shoot back but both maser
cannons were inoperative and when she looked over, she saw why. The left side
of the combot’s stout torso was missing, along with a crater in its chest.
Powercells were arcing electricity into space, and the machine was blind.

Smythe
saw the same data as Adams. “
Gunny,
 hold your
position. We are forty seconds out, do not-”

“No!”
Skippy shouted. “No time to wait, you are all in danger! That kitty was trying
to explode the ship’s reserve powercells, it could kill all of you! I can’t
stop it from here. You have to-”

Margaret
Adams didn’t wait. Rolling on the hull to take up a position behind the
crippled combot, she got it lined up with the antenna and-

Triggered
the rocket boosters on its rear casing.

The
heavy machine launched forward in a flash, unguided but without possibility of
missing over such a short distance. It slammed into the antenna, shattering the
combot’s limbs, splitting its casing wide open and breaking the antenna off at
its base.

Adams
was right behind, having released her boots from the hull and pushing off to soar
through space. She held up her arms to protect her faceplate from debris,
impacts making her tumble off-balance. When the synthetic display in her visor
showed she had reached the base of the antenna, she reached out to hold on, and
was yanked painfully to a halt.

Attached
to a thin tether, a bipedal form floated, its stealth field flickering. The
form moved on its own, regaining awareness quickly. Also on a tether was a
weapon, that tether retracting toward an arm that reached out-

“
No
!”
She launched herself forward. Her rifle was 
ready
 but
she could not risk killing the alien. Crashing into it, she tore at the tether
and the weapon went spinning off into space. The alien punched and clawed at
her with terrible strength, trying to crush-

With
one hand gripping the alien’s leg, she punched it in the faceplate of its helmet.
Her powered armor glove shattered the faceplate and air rushed out, instantly
turning to vapor.

The
alien flailed, blinded as she reached inside the helmet, triggering a stun
weapon on one finger of her glove. The Maxolhx jerked, then sagged as she wrapped
her legs around its torso.

“Adams?
Gunnery Sergeant,” Smythe called as he approached the airlock behind her. “What
is happening out there?”

“Target
is secure,” she reported. Looking in the enemy’s face, she saw its eyes were
only open as slits and its tongue was swollen. Reaching back, she pulled an
emergency patch from a pouch and began applying it over the shattered faceplate,
wrapping several layers until the patch bulged from inside, inflated by the
alien suit’s air supply. “Oh shut 
up
, drama queen
,”
  
she
 muttered. “A few seconds of vacuum
won’t kill you.”

 

When
the four dropships were secured aboard 
Valkyrie
, the ship blasted apart
the remains of the courier ship, blew the relay station to dust, and jumped
away.

 

 

I
was waiting just outside the airlock when Smythe’s dropship returned, eagerly
waiting for the light above the door to turn green. Skippy must have sensed my
eagerness, for as soon as the light glimmered to green, the inner and outer
doors slid open. “Thanks, Skippy,” I whispered as I strode through. 

 

Each
of the three kitties were restrained by shackles around their arms and legs,
and flanked by STARs wearing powered armor. The Maxolhx were large and
powerful, the STARs strained to keep them still even with the powered muscles
of their suits. They were large, powerful, and 
loud
. Yelling threats at
us. “
Skippy,
 kill the translation,” I ordered. “We
don’t need to hear what these assholes are saying.”

My
earpiece immediately stopped shouting demands and insults at me. “Joe, the one
in red is their leader, his rank is roughly equivalent to a first lieutenant.
Very roughly, military ranks in the Hegemony do not translate well to human
practices. His name is-”

“I
don’t need his name, Skippy,” I said, and Smythe nodded agreement. “We’re not
going to hang out and drink beer together.”

“OK.
Should I designate them as Assholes One, Two and Three?”

“No.
The one in red, we’ll call him, uh, ‘Tickle Me Elmo’.”

Elmo
looked straight at me and snarled, spitting and baring his fangs.

“Maybe
‘
Bite Me
 Elmo’ is more appropriate, Joe,” Skippy snickered.

“Let’s
go with that, or just ‘Elmo’ for short.”

“What
about the others? Their rank is very roughly equivalent to a warrant officer,
they are information security system technicians.”

The
technicians both wore light grey suits, with red and blue stripes on the chest.
“Uh, the one with the vertical stripes is ‘Bert’,” I pointed. “And the other
with the horizontal stripes will be ‘Ernie’.”

“Sir?”
Smythe arched an eyebrow at me. “
Bert 
and
 Ernie
?”

“You
have a better idea?”

“No,”
Smythe’s face cracked a rare smile. “Although I am fairly sure this one must be
Evil Bert.”

After
Columbus Day, the ‘Evil Bert’ meme had enjoyed a revival, with doctored photos showing
Bert with the Ruhar during their brief raid of our homeworld. Later, when our
Kristang saviors showed their true colors, Evil Bert was shown hanging out with
the lizards. Man, that Bert really gets around. Looking at the growling,
spitting and hissing prisoners, I shrugged. “They must be Evil Ernie and Evil
Elmo, too.”

Captain
Frey objected; she was one of the soldiers restraining the kitty in the red
suit. “Sir, Elmo could never be evil.” At that, Elmo lunged and tried to
head-butt her, throwing her off balance. She recovered quickly, yanking the
alien upright and getting one hand on his head.

“He
sure 
looks
 evil, Frey,” I retorted.

“He’s
just misunderstood, Sir,” she glared at Elmo.

“Yeah.
Make sure he 
understands
 that he is a prisoner, and that while we will
not mistreat any of them, we are also not taking any shit.”

“Will
do,” Frey gripped Elmo’s arm even tighter.

“Smythe,
bring them to the brig,” I ordered, and stepped aside for the STARs to march
the prisoners toward the airlock. Fabron’s Commandos were lined up on each
side, ready to act if our Sesame Street trio had any ideas of escaping.

They
disappeared through the 
airlock,
 I didn’t follow. This
was Smythe’s show, I didn’t want to get in the way. “Skippy?”

“Yes,
Joe?”

“You
learned a lesson from when Mister Snuggles was aboard, right? These three are not
going to infiltrate the ship’s systems, or kill themselves, or each other?”

“I
did learn a valuable lesson from the late and lamented Mister Snuggles.”

“Lamented?”
I snorted. “By who?”

“By

whom
, Joe. His loss is still felt deeply, by those of us who appreciated
the entertainment value he provided.”

“Good
point,” I tried to keep a straight face, but he knew I was laughing inside.
“Tell me the kitties can’t do any harm to the ship, or themselves.”

“They
are 
not
 doing anything 
stupid,
 I can promise
that. The nanotech injected by the STAR team has already neutralized the
implants they would have used.”

“You
can control them, though? Make them walk through the scanner booth in a relay
station, like we planned?”

“I 
will

be able to do that, when the time comes. So far, I have not tried to exert
control, because the nanotech has not been able to fully establish itself
inside them. If one of them had gotten loose, I could have dropped them, but
taking control too early has the potential to harm them. Also, until the
nanotech has been fully integrated, it might be detected by the station’s
scanner.”

“How
long will that take? We’re on the clock, Skippy.”

“Oh,
I can start tomorrow, by putting one of them in the mockup of a scanner booth.
It’s too bad we don’t have the resources to construct more than one booth.”

“That’s
OK. Start with Elmo, we will use him for the real deal anyway.”

“Gotcha.
Um, is there any reason you selected Elmo?”

“Well,
Bert and Ernie are a pair, it would be a shame to break them up, you know?”

“I
will never understand how you monkeys make decisions, but, OK.”

 

Before
I turned to leave, I caught the eye of Margaret Adams. She was grinning,
talking and joking with her teammates, because she 
was
 part of the team
again. She saw me looking at her, and-

She
nodded to me.

As
a gesture, it wasn’t much. A simple up and down of her chin.

And
a smile.

It
wasn’t exactly a 
how you 
doin
’
 expression, but
it was a smile. Happy, satisfied with herself for a job well done.

And
happy that I was there to share her joy, maybe?

That
was the best day I’d had in-

I
can’t remember how long.

 

 

Simms
called me while I was stepping onto a treadmill for a run. “Sir,” she sighed.
“Skippy is using a laser pointer to play with the Maxolhx again.”

“
Skippy
!”
I shouted at him.

“Ugh,”
he responded. “I am 
not
 playing with them, because those rotten kitties
are just standing there looking stupid. They are not chasing it at all!”

“Do
not harass the prisoners,” I ordered.

“Hey,
I was trying to give them some fun and exercise,” he pouted. “But did they play
along? 
Nooo
, they did not.”

“No
laser pointer.”

“But-”

“No.
Laser. Pointer, 
You
 got that?”

“OK,”
he grumbled. “Can I at least try the mechanical ferret again? This improved
model has more realistic fur and-”

 
“No, you cannot put a ferret, or that wind-up
mouse thing, or any other little robot rodents in their cells.”

“How
about one of the snake bots I use to inspect the water pipes?”

“No
freakin’ snakes!” The first time I had seen a 
snakebot
,
the thing had just slithered out of the toilet in my cabin. To make the
experience even more fun, it was the middle of the freakin’ night, and I had
stepped on it in the dark. Skippy sometimes showed me the video of that
incident, when he wanted to screw with me. It was impressive that I had jumped
high enough to touch the ceiling, but the sound I made was not the 
most manly
 thing I ever did. “I hate snakes, Skippy. No
snakes, no rodents, in fact, no toys at all in their cells, unless they request
something to play with.”

“Oh,
cool. Um, good timing, Joe. Ernie just told me he really wants a-”

“If
I go down to the brig right now and ask Ernie whether he requested a toy, what
will he say?”

“Um,
well, Ernie is very shy, Joe, you shouldn’t-”

“No
toys, period.”

“Oh,

man
, 
this sucks
. You never let me have any fun.
That first toy ferret was 
hilarious
.”

“No,
it scared the shit out of Elmo. He stomped it to 
death
.”

“But-”

“No
‘buts’. You concentrate on getting Elmo to walk into the booth and do whatever
he needs to do.”

“I
have been doing that, and it was fun the first time, but now it’s 
boring
,”
he whined. “So tedious. I have to monitor and control every single nerve
impulse, so the scanning booth doesn’t detect anything unusual.”

I
stepped off the treadmill so another person could use it, since I wasn’t. “The
test is going well, though?”

“Under
the controlled conditions here, yes. The testing has revealed a potential
problem, there might be loss of signal when Elmo goes into the booth.”

“Ayuh,
we knew that might be an issue.” Skippy did not know for certain, but he
thought the Maxolhx would have prevented any signals in or out, once the
subject was in the scanning booth. His reasoning was that’s what he would do,
if he designed the access procedures for a relay station. “Have you tried the
backup plan?”

“Not
yet. Elmo got tired 
yesterday,
 it is rough on him when
I control his movements. We will try it in a few hours. If the backup plan
doesn’t work, we do not have a Plan C.”

“Yeah,
I know.” Our Plan B was for Elmo to bring one end of a microwormhole into the
booth with him. The benefit of using a microwormhole was it assured
instantaneous communication between Skippy and Elmo. The potential problem that
was bothering Skippy is that the relay station might detect the very faint
radiation leaking from the event horizon. To avoid that, Elmo’s end of the
wormhole had to be located in a less-than-ideal place; the main powercell of
his suit. For masking the radiation, Skippy would be causing a tiny,
intermittent fault in one of the powercell modules. If the station’s AI
inquired, it would see that fault was noted in the suit’s maintenance logs. We
would be OK, unless the station insisted on access to the suit’s self-repair
subroutines. Hopefully, the station would not want to get into nitpicky details.
If it did detect the microwormhole, Elmo would be screwed, and we would need to
try again at another relay station, with either Bert or Ernie. “All right, let
me know how the test goes.”

 

 

“Transition
successful,” Subcaptain Turnell reported. “No anomalies reported.”

Illiath
experienced a flash of irritation at her subordinate, wanting to say something
sharp like ‘I 
know
 that’. A biting remark that would hurt Turnell, and
relieve part of the tension and anger that Illiath was holding in.

To
do that would be unworthy of a starship commander. She could have instructed
her glands to secrete calming hormones, but she did not. The anger she felt was
useful, it motivated her. It was a useful tool. “Very well, Subcaptain,” she replied
simply. The patrol cruiser 
Vortan
 had just flown through an Elder
wormhole that had recently changed its position, only the third ship to make
the transition. Other ships had avoided the altered wormhole, fearing it would
suddenly collapse without warning. As the Vortan had just proved, the only
change to the eons-long operation of that particular wormhole was a small but
troubling adjustment in the base location of its figure-eight pattern. Every
emergence point, that is, all the emergence points that had been tracked so
far, had 
moved
. The movement was not far, a distance the Vortan could
have flown through normal space within a day, but it was a change. No active
wormhole had ever been known to adjust its position in space. More puzzling
than the unprecedented movement, was that it had not been accompanied by a
shift of wormholes across the network in the area. No active wormhole had shut
down, and no dormant wormhole had awakened.

Except,
maybe that last statement was not quite true.

An
unusual source of intermittent gamma rays had been detected by a Thuranin ship,
in the vicinity of the active wormhole. The Thuranin had reported the
information to their patrons, and been instructed to stay away. Illiath’s ship
had been sent to investigate.

That
assignment was the source of her anger. Instead of remaining with the Rindhalu
at Rakesh Diwalen, she had been ordered away, her ship replaced by a dozen
more. The revelation that there might be two ghost ships, both based on
captured Maxolhx technology, had sent a shock through the fleet. No longer
could the joint investigation be conducted by a mere commander of a patrol
cruiser. The fleet had sent an admiral with a full battlegroup, brusquely
telling Illiath that her services were no longer needed.

“Jump
when ready,” Illiath ordered, eager to get to the gamma ray source.

 

“Commander,”
Turnell gasped. “It is, that is-”

“A
wormhole,” Illiath finished the thought. “Yes, it is.”

They
had arrived at the mysterious gamma ray source, expecting to find an event that
would be only a scientific curiosity. What they saw floating in front of the 
Vortan’s

nose was the unmistakable signature of an Elder wormhole. The initial, sketchy
data provided by the Thuranin had shown only a chaotic, intermittent source of
strong gamma rays. There had been no pattern to the bursts. Now, the wormhole
had stabilized so a familiar pattern could be identified. It was unmistakably
the signature of a dormant Elder wormhole booting up.

It
was not impossible, just unprecedented in the long memory of the Maxolhx.

It
violated all of the inscrutable rules the Maxolhx had thought governed the
wormhole network. There had to be 
balance
. Whenever one dormant wormhole
awakened, an active wormhole had to switch off. For an unknown reason, the
number of wormholes with a local area always remained constant.

Until
now.

A
dormant wormhole was waking up, yet all active wormholes in the area were
accounted for and still functioning properly. The only change was that at least
one active wormhole had changed its base location. A phenomenon that had never
happened before, just like the phenomena of the total number of active
wormholes increasing.

What
the hell was going on?

Illiath
pinged the ship’s AI for analysis. Based on the pattern of bursts, the wormhole
would be stable enough to go through within two days. She would not risk her
ship, but a probe could certainly be sent through. Where did this new wormhole
connect to? She had no idea. No wormhole had ever appeared in that position.
That also was new.

 

Two
days later, the 
Vortan
 launched a probe, that flew through the temporarily-stable
wormhole, moments before it shut down again. The probe reappeared during the
next stable period, reporting that the other end of the wormhole was in an
isolated area, closer to the center of the galaxy, in the comparatively empty
space between spiral arms. It was apparently a dead-end, no known wormholes
were in the vicinity, nor were there any inhabited or even useful star systems
within the distance a typical warship could travel without the support of a
star carrier.

It
made no sense. Recently, nothing Illiath had experienced made any sense.

After
sending another three probes through, she planted sensor drones around the
still-blinking event horizon, and turned her ship around.

Her
superiors had given her wide latitude to investigate odd wormhole behavior, and
she was curious. The first active wormhole known to have moved, was in the
local network that included the blockaded wormhole to Earth. There, too, an
active wormhole had adjusted its base location.

Could
there also be a previously-unknown dormant wormhole awakening on that same
network?

She
was going to find out.

As
her ship built up power for a jump, she thought back to her discussion with the
repulsive Rindhalu. They had both agreed there was no such thing as a
coincidence.

Why,
then, did lowly, primitive 
humans
 keep popping up in her investigation?

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY EIGHT

 

Before
we committed to sending one of the Maxolhx into a relay station, Skippy advised
we should conduct a recon to determine the exact conditions inside a station’s
scanning booth, using a bot instead of a live alien. The station would, of
course, lock itself, destroy the bot and attempt to report the intrusion. After
a second attempted intrusion, the station would self-destruct, so we needed all
the info we could get.

I
approved Skippy’s plan for several reasons. Hacking into a sentient being still
seemed morally suspect to me, I felt bad about the idea of Skippy controlling
even one of our asshole Maxolhx prisoners. Despite my speech about how we were
soldiers and not thugs, using prisoners the way we planned would not be allowed
under the rules of the United States Army. Though we were a long way from home,
those rules still mattered to me. Also, every time I thought about Skippy
making a Maxolhx move against its will, I had a flashback to when I was a
prisoner of the Thuranin. Maybe my personal experience should have disqualified
me from making decisions about the operation, but I like to think my experience
made me the 
best
 person to make the decisions.

We
had to give the test subject a decent chance of surviving the infiltration, and
that meant knowing what he would be getting into.

And,
OK, maybe I had another personal interest in approving a test run with a robot.

The
best, really 
only
, candidate for the bot was Anastacia. She, no, 
it
,
was the only human-like bot aboard either ship. It would be relatively simple to
modify her chassis to simulate a Maxolhx, including body temperature,
biomechanics, the way a kitty walked and talked. Basically, the alternative was
for Skippy to construct another Anastacia, and we couldn’t afford to use up our
supply of nanofabricator raw materials. So, if conducting a test run meant the
destruction of my 
sexbot
, who was NOT a 
sexbot
 at all, then, gosh darn it, I was willing to make
that sacrifice.

 

“Uh
oh, Joe.” Skippy’s avatar appeared on my desk, shaking his head as the hologram
shimmered to life. “Bad news.”

“
Craaaaap
,” I slumped back in the chair. “What is it 
this

time?”

“Well,
your decision to send Anastacia on a dangerous mission is sparking a protest
among the crew.”

I
flopped the chair forward. “What? It’s a freakin’ 
robot
, why would
they-”

“
She

is very popular, especially with people who have been in the medical bay, which
is a lot of people. Even the children like her, Joe.”

“
It

is not a she, and I don’t see any protest. There aren’t any people lined up
outside my door with pitchforks and torches,” I said as I leaned over to look
through the doorway.

“It’s
more sophisticated than that, dumdum. The protest is on social media.”

“Social-
We don’t 
have
 social media out here.”

“Of
course we do. The fleet’s internal messaging system.”

“Oh.
Give me a minute,” I opened my laptop. “I’ll log in and read the comments.”

“Oh
I wouldn’t do that Joe,” he blurted out in a rush. “
Nosiree
,
that would be a 
bad
 idea. Whew! You know how nasty people can get
online. I want to protect you from getting your feelings hurt.”

“Uh
huh,” I replied slowly, my fingers poised over the keyboard. Something about
what he said made me suspicious, like the fact that 
he
 said it. No way
could I trust that lying little shithead. “Comments on the messaging system can
be made anonymously. Give me a sample of the stuff people are saying to
protest, please.”

“Um,
OK. User ‘
AwesomenessToInfinity
’ wrote that you want
to punish Anastacia, because the two of you had a lover’s quarrel.”

“Hmm.
Anything else?”

“Um,
well, yes,” he stuttered. “User ‘Magnificent1’ says-”

“Skippy,
those usernames would not be 
your
 accounts, would they?”

“What?
Of course not, Joe. I am insulted. That is an unfair and 
shocking
 
accusa
-”

“You
know, I owe it to the crew to personally address each and every comment. Ayuh,
I am going to log in right now and-”

“No
need to do 
that
, Joe. Simms is the executive officer, she handles
personnel matters, right?”

“Good
point. I will ask 
her
 to log in and-”

“
Crap
,”
he grumbled. “Please do not tell her about this. She already hates me.”

“Simms
doesn’t hate you. She just doesn’t trust you, though I have no idea why,” I
said while rolling my eyes.

“I
have no idea either,” he muttered, cluelessly rubbing his chin in deep thought.
“Maybe I should use the fabricators to make something special for her?”

“
Maybe
,
you should try not being a lying, sneaky, underhanded little shithead.”

“Let’s
not go crazy, Joe.”

“Is
it safe to say we can forget about any protests?”

“Ugh.
I guess so. Truthfully, I did overhear some of the crew complaining that they
would lose the entertainment value of Anastacia.”

“Entertain-
O.M.
G
. Are any of the guys actually using her 
as a-”

“No.

Yuck
. I meant, entertaining as, she is embarrassing to 
you
.”

“I
will try to make up for it, by tripping over my shoelaces. Is there anything
else?”

“No,”
he hung his head.

“Great.
Goodbye, Skippy.”

 

 

With
the Dutchman nearby in case we needed help, we jumped 
Valkyrie
 in near a
Maxolhx relay station, one that saw enough traffic that it would likely have
updated information, but not so much traffic that there was a big risk of ships
jumping in while we hacked the station. Skippy flew a Panther dropship over to
the station, and Anastacia walked out, disguised as a Maxolhx. Though Skippy
had a real-time connection to her, through one end of a microwormhole concealed
inside her chassis, he did not know whether the scanning booth might interfere
with the connection. So, Anastacia had been programmed to operate autonomously
as much as possible. The fact that Skippy wasn’t sure whether the microwormhole
would be detected was a good reason to conduct a test with a robot.

“OK,”
Skippy muttered, giving us a play-by-play. “She has transmitted her personal
identification codes, 
aaaand
, the station AI has
accepted. The door to the scanning booth is opening, she is walking forward
and- Now a message from our sponsor. Fenway Franks are the genuine major league
hot dog, get them at your local-”

“
Skippy
!”
I shouted at him.

“OK,
OK, Jeez. Gotta pay the bills, Joe. Anastacia is walking into the booth, door
is closing. Wow. That is a heavily-shielded door, and the entire booth is surrounded
by a strong field, like a Faraday cage. No electromagnetic radiation is getting
in or out. It is a good thing that we have a microwormhole, otherwise I would
be blind in there. Oops! Well, darn. That’s it. The station AI just fried
Anastacia. I had to collapse the microwormhole.”

“Did
the station detect the microwormhole?”

“I
don’t think so. Ugh, now you’re going to ask me to quantify my level of
confidence?”

“You
know it.”

“Eighty
percent?” he guessed. “There was no indication the station reacted to the
residual radiation of the event horizon. Unfortunately, we will not know for
sure until Elmo goes in there.”

“Is
that still on schedule?”

“It
should be. After the AI destroyed Anastacia, I transmitted the explanation that
sending in a robot was a test of the station’s security measures. The AI
appears to have accepted the explanation, mostly because it can’t believe that
was a serious attempt to infiltrate its matrix. Based on the information I
collected, I am now fairly confident about guiding Elmo through the scanning
process.”

“What
about the Panther?” Skippy’s bots had scrubbed that machine to remove traces of
human DNA, and liberally dusted it with fur and skin cells from Bert, Ernie and
Elmo. That would be good enough, unless the station decided to send its own
bots to inspect the Panther’s cabin. We could not be absolutely certain that
the cabin was a thousand percent clean of evidence humans had been there.

“I
requested permission for the Panther to return, station is opening the docking
bay doors now.”

“Good.
Is Elmo ready?”

“Ready
as he will ever be,” Skippy said sourly. While he enjoyed making arrogant
aliens dance and act like puppets, he did not like turning Elmo into a
biological robot, even temporarily. Even if it was for a very good cause.

 

When
the station’s enforced lockdown was over, we jumped 
Valkyrie
 back in and
immediately launched the Panther carrying Elmo. Skippy guided the stolen
dropship into the docking bay, and Elmo got out. Watching through the Panther’s
external sensors, I tensed up in the command chair. “Skippy, he is walking kind
of stiff, like he is injured.”

“That’s
the best I can do, sorry. Making him dance is easy, I just send signals to his
motor fibers. Here, I have to do that, without the station’s scanner detecting any
odd brain activity. To do that, I am having to control every single neuron. It
is 
exhausting
. Now, please get yourself a juice box, shut up, and let me
work.”

I
shut up so effectively, I did not even tell him I was shutting up. Bilby was
running the ship, allowing Skippy to focus all his brainpower on his assigned
task. Skippy’s ability did not concern me. What I worried about was that he
would get bored, and his brain would say ‘Look! A squirrel!’ and go bounding
off across a field to chase it. Or something like that.

 
Amazingly, while we waited, I realized the tension
I was feeling was not from fear of mission failure. OK, it was that too. But
mostly, I feared for 
Elmo
. Maybe giving him a cute name was a bad idea,
if he was called something like ‘Azoth the Conqueror’ I would not have been so
sympathetic. Or maybe it is empathetic? Whatever.

Anyway,
I need not have worried. Guided by Skippy, Elmo performed all the proper
authentications, which was surprisingly quick, and presto! We were granted
access. A flood of data began flowing into 
Valkyrie’s
 memory, with Bilby
holding it in a sandbox until he could be sure there wasn’t any malicious code.
Bilby responded by sending a bunch of fake message traffic that we had
supposedly picked up along the way. The data we sent would not hold up to close
scrutiny, but it wouldn’t have to, for we planned to destroy the station before
jumping away.

“Data
transfer is complete,” Bilby announced with admirable brevity, something I had
urged him to do. We couldn’t afford any distractions.

“Great,
thank you. Skippy, pull Elmo out of there, so he can entertain all the good
little girls and boys here.”

“Roger
that,” he muttered. “Huh. That is-”

The
station exploded without warning. Or, without any warning that I was aware of.

“Shields!”
I barked without needing to, Bilby had automatically energized the shields for
us. Still, the ship shook 
gently
 and I heard
barely-audible 
thump
 sounds as debris pelted the ship’s thick armor.
“Crap. Skippy, what went wrong?”

“Ugh,
give me a minute,” he pleaded. “The wormhole didn’t collapse fast enough, I got
some feedback from the explosion. Oh, that hurts.”

“Are
you OK?”

“I’ll
be fine. I know, walk it off, right?”

“Yup.
You can pop a Motrin and drink a glass of water, if that helps.”

“That
will 
not
 help. Best to jump us away while I recover.”

 

We
jumped. It took five minutes for Skippy to recover, which made me think he was
milking his injury for sympathy.

Speaking
of sympathy, I actually did feel bad about the fate of Elmo. “Bilby, have you
told Bert and Ernie about what happened?”

“No,
Dude. Should I?”

“No.
I will tell them myself.” Elmo had died on my watch, on my orders. I owed it to
the remaining two Maxolhx to look them in the eye when I told them about their
friend’s death. “Skippy?”

“Yeah,
yeah, I’m good,” he said, his voice shaky. “I do not want to do 
that

again.”

“Please
tell me we got the information we need.”

“We
do. Unfortunately, that is the only good news I have. The awakening of
wormholes that were previously dormant 
has
 been noticed by clients of
the Maxolhx. The kitties have dispatched ships to investigate, they are most
curious that these new wormholes are in locations where no wormhole had been
known to exist.”

“Shit.
They know the wormholes have been moved?”

“No.
No, they have no idea that is even possible. 
I
 didn’t know it was
possible, until a monkey asked a stupid question. The Maxolhx are assuming
these are 
new
 wormholes.”

“The
Broomstick wormhole, has that been spotted yet?”

“It
is not on the list, but that list is eight days old,” Skippy cautioned. “We
have to assume the 
kitties
 or their clients will
notice Broomstick soon. Hey, Joe, you might find this interesting. One of the
ships that has been ordered to investigate some of the new wormholes is
commanded by an old friend of ours.”

“An
old friend?” Simms and I looked at each other, neither of us had any clue.
“Who?”

“Commander
Illiath of the Maxolhx Hegemony patrol cruiser 
Vortan
. Her ship checked
out the site where we destroyed the two Maxolhx cruisers, and discovered the
evidence we planted was bogus, remember?”

“Yeah,
I remember that. Damn, she is remarkably persistent. I thought she had given up
chasing us.”

“She
doesn’t know she is chasing 
us
, Joe.”

“You
know what I mean. Shit. Do you know the flight path of this Illiath’s ship?”

“Not
exactly. Why?” Skippy asked.

“Because
I’m thinking we maybe should intercept her ship. Take her out, before she does
any more damage.”

“Sir?”
Simms raised an eyebrow.

“She
has been nothing but trouble for us,” I explained. “She is smart and determined,
and that is a bad combination for us. This Illiath is a clear and present
danger to our mission,” I stated, knowing my XO wanted me to justify blowing up
another ship. My point was, Illiath’s ship was an enemy vessel, and therefore a
legitimate target in our undeclared war. I did not need permission to engage an
enemy ship, but I did need to explain why it was worth the 
rsk
.

Simms
pursed her lips. “It’s too late to stop her now, Sir. If we target her ship,
that might only tell the enemy that she is on the right track.”

“Ah,
you’re right,” I conceded. “Simms, this is a worst-case scenario. The enemy
could be right on our heels when we get to Earth. I think we need to rendezvous
with the 
Dutchman
, and proceed to Backstop.”

She
unstrapped and rose from her chair. “If you don’t need me here, Sir?”

“No.
Where are you going?”

“To
work on setting up the ship for more passengers. If we only have a short time
at Earth, we must be prepared to stuff as many people as we can fit aboard the
ship.”

“Please
do,” I nodded. “Let me know if there is anything you need. Pilot, jump us back
to the 
Dutchman
.”

 

 

“Success?”
Chang asked, holding out a thumb sideways.

“Success,”
I responded, and he turned the thumb up with a grin. “Not a hundred percent,
Kong. We lost Anastacia.”

“I
know you are heartbroken about that.”

“Less
than you might think,” I grinned back at him, then my smile faded. “We lost
Elmo too.”

He
stopped smiling. “What happened?”

“I
don’t know yet. Skippy?”

“It’s
my fault. Although, I couldn’t have done anything about it until now. The
station transmitted a series of instructions to Elmo’s neural implants. He was
supposed to send an acknowledgment, then follow the instructions for egress.
When Elmo failed to respond properly, the station halted the data transfer and
self-destructed. Don’t worry about COMSEC, we effectively jammed any outbound
transmissions. All the kitties will know is, that station exploded.”

“Maybe,”
Chang said after a moment to consider. “We should have let the enemy know someone
hacked access to that station, make them change their procedures again.”

“Huh,”
I thought about that. “Good idea, if we have time. We would need to fly to
another relay station to do that, I don’t know if we have the time. And I would
kind of feel guilty about risking Bert or Ernie. Hey, Skippy, now that you’ve
hacked into one station, can you make it look like we got access to other
stations without actually sending someone inside?”

“Ugh,
no,” he was disgusted. “The stupid kitties are 
smart
. Each damned relay
station has its own unique set of procedures for access, and the procedures
change every twenty-six days. The Maxolhx have become paranoid about security,
ever since some asshole, 
hee
 
hee
,”
he chuckled. “Compromised their entire pixie system. That is another example of
the Law of Unintended Consequences biting us on the ass. Revealing that the
ghost ship hacked into the pixie network did seriously hamper the enemy’s
command, control and communications capability, but we also kind of screwed
ourselves. Doing that made it harder for us to keep track of what the kitties
are doing.”

“Yeah,
well,” I didn’t want to point a finger for blame, because it had been 
my

idea to destroy the enemy’s faith in the security of their pixie network. “It
seemed like a good idea at the time.”

“It

was
 a good idea, Joe,” Kong assured me. “We might have been trapped at
Rikers while 
Valkyrie
 was disabled, if the Maxolhx had been able to
quickly send ships to box us in.”

“Thanks.
We did learn bad news from the station, before it blew itself up. The kitties
know about dormant wormholes opening across the galaxy, and they are sending
ships to investigate. They think these are 
new
 wormholes, they don’t
know about dormant wormholes moving. That doesn’t help us. We have to assume
they will know about Broomstick soon. They could be right on our tails when we
get to Earth.”

 

 

“Do
you have any questions?” I asked, looking at the glass of scotch on the desk in
front of me. The glass had barely enough liquid to coat the two ice cubes, and
I didn’t feel like drinking even that much. The scotch had been poured because
it had become sort of a tradition when Chang came aboard 
Valkyrie
, and
because the occasion called for a drink. Really, the occasion called for
getting drunk, but we both still had jobs to do. The civilians were now all
aboard my ship, the STAR team over at the good old 
Dutchman
.

“No,”
Chang said. “It’s straightforward.” Technically, he was correct. All Chang had
to do was wait near Backstop, while I took 
Valkyrie
, with the civilians,
away. The first priority for me would be recon, to determine what aliens knew
about wormholes that had moved. Most importantly, had the Esselgin or anyone
else noticed gamma rays coming from the spot where the far end of Broomstick
would soon be opening? After we obtained that info, I decided to take 
Valkyrie

to the Beta site to drop off the civilians, then coming back before Backstop
stabilized. The civilians were 
not
 happy about the change of plan, and I
did let them express their concerns, which involved me enduring a lot of verbal
abuse. Because I could understand their anger, and because I wanted them to
yell at me instead of the crew, I listened to them in a calm, professional
manner for an hour, then left to go hit the punching bag in the gym. That
burned off some of 
my
 anger. Damn it, we were trying to 
help

people, doing the best we could. 

Anyway,
taking a side trip to the Beta site was the plan. The Universe hadn’t yet told
me whether it planned to bitch-slap me again, but come on. After the shock of
hearing that another wormhole was opening near Earth, I couldn’t take another
surprise. Chang took a tiny sip of scotch and 
asked

“You will be back before the wormhole is stable?”

“If
nothing goes wrong.” Picking up my glass, I held it up toward him. “To nothing
going wrong.”

We
clinked glasses, and each drank a thimbleful of alcohol. “Like 
that’s

going to happen,” Chang observed.

“Hey,
the Universe owes us one.”

“The
Universe is not what concerns me.”

“It’s
not?”

He
shook his head. “There’s nothing we can do about it. My concern is 
people
.”

I
knew what he meant. “Leave that for the governments dirtside to handle.”

“People
on the ground are not the only factor. Joe,” he automatically glanced toward
the open doorway of my office. “The crew of our ships are 
people
. They
are going to want to bring their loved ones aboard. 
I 
want to bring my
family with us.”

“Yeah.”
Shit. We had not discussed the elephant in the room. That was the uncomfortable
truth I had not talked about with the crew. There was limited space aboard our
two ships. Stuffing people aboard the 
Dagger
 and the 
Qishan
 would
greatly increase the number of refugees we could bring to the Beta site, but
even with four ships, it would be a drop in the ocean. Billions of people lived
on Earth, and at best, we could save a couple thousand per trip. At worst, if
the Maxolhx went through the Broomstick wormhole shortly after it opened, there
would not be time to modify our two Kristang troop ships, and provision them
with supplies. We would be running for the Beta site with the 
Dutchman

and 
Valkyrie
 jam-packed with at most, four or five hundred people.

Five
hundred.

Whether
the number was five hundred or five hundred thousand, the question was, 
which

people? Who would live, while the rest died? Who had the right to make that
decision? No, forget about what is right. We only had time for practical
considerations. Who had the ability to make that decision, and 
do

something about it?

“I
was hoping to avoid this discussion,” I admitted. That was not quite true.
Having that discussion was inevitable, essential. I wasn’t hoping not to have
the discussion, I just wasn’t looking forward to it.

“I
was hoping to avoid 
needing
 this discussion,” he said. “If we go through
Backstop together, you’re in command. If I’m alone, I need to know the
commander’s intent.”

That
might have sounded like he was passing the buck to me, but that’s not what he
was doing. He was following protocol, as much as he could.

Of
all the discussions I had with Chang over the years, that was the most important.
To even have the conversation verged on treason, for both of us. The flags on
our uniforms reminded us that I owed my loyalty to the United States, and he to
China. National interests had never before been an issue for our international
crew, because Earth politics didn’t mean shit when we were fighting an alien
threat to the existence of our whole species.

Now
national interests might come into direct conflict with our upcoming mission to
bring people from Earth to the Beta site. There simply was not enough space
aboard the ships to take everyone off Earth, even if we still had years to
shuttle back and forth. With the Broomstick wormhole opening, we might only
have months. Maybe only weeks. If that long. Nations would be competing for
spots aboard the ships for their citizens.

It
was awful to think that Chang and I might be on opposite sides of a struggle
for space aboard the evac ships, but that was a real possibility. If China
ordered him to reserve the 
Flying Dutchman 
for Chinese citizens, what
would he do?

Of
all the enemies the Merry Band of Pirates had faced, we ourselves might be the
most dangerous.

“All
right, Kong.” Without making it obvious that I was watching his body language,
I watched his body language. After he returned to his ship, Skippy would tell
me how Chang had reacted in subtle ways I couldn’t see. That was a rotten thing
to do, and necessary. “I talked about our options with Skippy, and Nagatha.
Don’t blame her for not telling you, I ordered her not to. It was all
theoretical at the time. You hit on the crucial issue: the crews of our ships
are people. They will want to save their own families first. I hate to say it, 
but,
 we may have to do just that.”

“Or
we won’t 
have
 any crew aboard the ships?”

“That
too, 
but,
 we have to do what’s practical. Whatever we
can. We will be announcing that we can only take a limited number of people
with us, and everyone left behind will be doomed. Skippy had a stupid idea,” I
paused to see if he joined the conversation. Wisely, he stayed out of it. “About
a reality show where the winners get tickets to the Beta site. The evac isn’t
going to be anything organized like that. It’s not going to be 
organized

at all. Dirtside is going to be absolute chaos, a complete breakdown of social
order,” I said the dry words that I had discussed with Skippy and Nagatha.
“Governments won’t make the decisions about who goes with us, because there
won’t 
be
 governments. Kong, it will be every man for himself down there.
It’s probable that we’ll have to send dropships down to pick up whoever we can,
without any organization or help from civil or military authorities. Hell, we
will need to be prepared for armed resistance. People see our dropships flying
away, they’re going to start shooting. They may shoot while we’re 
landing
,
because they know we don’t have room for everyone. We’ll have to keep our ships
in high orbit, and verify any incoming dropships don’t have a bomb aboard.”
Looking at the bottle of scotch, I so much wanted to pour a full glass and down
it. “Crap. This is a fun topic of conversation” I said, watching his eyes.
“Sorry to dump this on you.”

“Joe,
it’s not anything I haven’t considered on my own,” he glanced at the desk, then
back at me, meeting my eyes. We were both watching each other’s reactions.
“Your scenario is actually a bit 
more sunny
 than what
I really fear.”

“Well,

shit
.” Hearing that made me lose concentration, wondering what he was
thinking about. “What could be worse than absolute chaos on the ground?”

“The
governments of Earth know the 
Dutchman
 is long overdue to return. They
know the crew members aboard when we left. It would be very surprising if our
families were not being held by our respective governments,” he made air quotes
with his hands, “‘for their safety’, supposedly.”

“
Fuuuuck
. I hadn’t thought of that. Shit!”

“We
may need to 
fight
 to get our families off the surface.”

“Oh,
hell yes.”

“It
may not be so simple a question. If the FBI has a gun to your mother’s head,
what will you do? If you have to disobey orders from your government, are you
prepared to do that?”

“Are

you
?” I asked.

“I
don’t know. I probably won’t know, until I have to make a decision,” he
admitted.

Another
deep breath before I asked the crucial question. “Let me ask this: are you
prepared to ignore the orders of your government?”

His
eyes narrowed. “Are 
you
?”

“Kong,
I don’t,” I laid my hands on the table, palms-up. “I don’t know. If, shit. I
have never been great at following orders, especially dumbass ones,” I forced a
grin.

He
didn’t smile back at me. “Joe, the last time you ignored orders, you stole a
starship, for a mission that benefitted all nations equally. This is different.
The mix of people who get aboard our ships will determine the survival of
entire cultures. Our current crew is composed of people from eighteen nations,
not just the five nations of UNEF. Eighteen nations. Even if we bring aboard
the families of our entire crew, that leaves out most of humanity. We do not
have any Italians aboard. No one from Spain. Or Malaysia. Or-”

“I
get the idea.” I knew what he meant, because I had done the same math on my
own.

“Those
cultures could be lost, forever, if no one from those countries is brought to
the Beta site.” 

“I 
know

that,” I assured him, growing irritated at him, and at myself for allowing
myself to get irritated. The subject was agonizing to think about, I shouldn’t
make it worse. “We can’t just randomly pick two people from each country, there
won’t be room for everyone. Our ships aren’t Noah’s Ark.” When we first
considered the idea of a Beta site, someone had told me a minimum number, like
three thousand people, would be needed for genetic diversity for a healthy
population. Our space ark would need to bring not two, but three 
thousand
 of every ethnic group, to ensure that culture
survived. That was not even remotely practical, even if we had a whole fleet of
transport ship. “
But,
 I don’t know what to do.”

“First,
you need to answer my question,” Kong insisted. “If the United States orders
you to reserve all space aboard the ships for American citizens, what will you
do?”

Skippy
saved me from answering that, by interrupting us. “
Gentlemen,

be aware that I will not allow our ships to be used in that manner. Not even by
you, Joe. The nations of your homeworld will cooperate to conduct the
evacuation in a fair way, or I will make the decision by myself.”

That
pissed me off. It also was a relief. Before I could respond, Chang addressed
the beer can. “That is the problem, isn’t it?”

“What?”
Skippy asked.

“What
do you mean by ‘
fair
’? Everyone involved, even if they all cooperate
with the best of intentions, will have a different definition of what is fair.”

“Um,
well, uh,” Skippy sputtered.

“Skippy,”
I spoke slowly, unsure of exactly what I wanted to say. “If you are going to be
the final decision-maker, you need to think long and hard about this. And don’t
give me any bullshit about how you are able to make better decisions, because
you are not an overly-emotional meatsack. The people who do not get aboard our
ships 
will die
. Who are you willing to let die?”

“Well,
shit,” he let out a long, weary breath. “
This sucks
.”

“That’s
why you need to think about it now,” I chided him gently.

“How?”
He pleaded. “How do I make a decision like that?”

“I’ll
give you an example. You like Captain Frey, right?”

“Um,
yes, sure,” he answered warily. Everyone in the crew knew he had a crush on our
Canadian special operator.

“If
she asks you to bring her family aboard, will you do that?”

“Um,
well, Jeez. It would be hard to say no. Especially since she has been risking
her life out here.”

“Right.
What about 
Fal
 Desai?” I asked, a lump in my throat.
“She gave her life out here, to save humanity. What about her family?”

“Oh.
For sure, we owe it to her.”

“I
agree. Where does it stop? How do you define ‘family’? 
Fal’s

sister is married. Do we bring aboard her sister’s husband? What about 
his

parents?”

“Shit,
Joe,” he whispered miserably. “You need to help me with that.”

“Skippy,”
Chang leaned forward on the desk, his drink forgotten. “If you are going to be
the judge and jury to decide who lives and dies, then 
you
 need to make
the decision.”

I
pushed my own glass away. “Kong, I should have brought you into the discussion
earlier.”

He
shrugged. “We’re talking about it now. We still have a month before we go
through Backstop. Joe, we need to use the time to tell the crew. This isn’t
something we can spring on them at the last minute.”

“Ah,
I don’t know about that. The 
crew
 will panic. Kong, we have to keep the
crew focused on their jobs. Talking about the apocalypse is not conducive to
good order and discipline.”

“They
aren’t stupid, Joe,” he reminded me. “They are already thinking about it, trust
me. If we don’t talk about it openly, we will be trying to implement a very
dangerous, emotionally-stressful plan with no preparation and no training. The
US military thinks the same way as the Chinese Army: we train the way we fight.
The crew will be panicked while we are trying to pluck a handful of souls off
the surface. They should experience that panic, and get used to it, when they
are training for the evac.”

“Like
a Band-aid, huh?”

“What?”
he didn’t get the reference.

“It’s
best just to tear it off and get it over with. Pulling it off slowly only
prolongs the agony.”

“Quite
so.”

“Kong,”
I shook my head. “Of all the terrible discussions we have had over the years,
is this the worst?”

He
considered for only a moment. “Perhaps. It is certainly one of the most painful.
The STAR team is disciplined and professional, but they have never trained for
a situation like this. We need to bring Smythe into the planning.”

“You’re
right. OK, I do not want to stress the civilians any more than they are. I will
inform the crew on the way back from Avalon, after we drop off the civilians.
You tell Smythe, and your crew, after 
Valkyrie
 jumps away this
afternoon. They are going to be 
shocked,
 we need to
deal with that.” 

“What
are the five stages of grief?” He asked. “I hope to get the crew from Denial to
Acceptance, before Backstop opens.”

“Yeah.
For the Pirates, I hope we add two more stages at the end. 
Determination
,
to do what we can, before the end.”

He
cocked his head. “What’s the seventh stage?”

“
Payback
.”

He
lifted the bottle and poured a splash of golden liquid into each of our
glasses. “I’ll drink to that.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER TWENTY NINE

 

After

Valkyrie
 jumped away toward the Beta site, I called Simms into my
office. This time, I shut the door. We needed to have the happy conversation I
had been dreading, since I talked with Chang.

Actually,
as I should have expected, she was way ahead of me. In fact, she had already talked
about the subject with Smythe, before he went over to the 
Dutchman
.
“Why,” I asked, mildly frustrated. “Didn’t you mention it to me?”

“Skippy
said you had enough on your plate, and that,” she shrugged. “You would discuss
it with me when the time was right.”

“Skippy
was not supposed to tell anyone.”

She
just gave me The Look.

“OK,”
I forced myself to relax. “That’s fair.”

“Sir,
there is another aspect to the evac that you didn’t mention. We will need to
take direct, 
offensive
 action.”

“Off-
I can see the need to defend ourselves and the dropships, but-”

“It
is going to get 
ugly
 down there,” she scowled. “When countries realize
they are competing for a very small number of slots aboard our ships, nukes
could start flying.”

“Shit.”

“You
see what I-”

“Yeah.
Damn. OK, yes. If anyone launches a nuke, we intercept it in flight.”

“That’s
fine, but it requires us to have continuous coverage of the surface, with only
two ships.”

I
stared at the ceiling, thinking about the problem. “Just the northern
hemisphere, right? The nuclear-armed nations are all above the equator.”

“Except
for ballistic missile submarines,” she reminded me. “And cruise missiles. We
can’t cover just the northern hemisphere. If we park both ships in
geosynchronous orbit, one above the Brazil and one over Indonesia, we can
intercept any missiles in flight.”

“Cruise
missiles?” I asked.

“That
will be more difficult, we’ll need active sensor coverage. If Skippy can
prevent launch codes from being transmitted, we may not have a problem. That
only prevents an all-out war when our ships are in orbit. We could return from
the Beta site to find Earth is radioactive, even before aliens get there.”

“Crap.
We were talking about the danger of aliens coming to Earth, now we have to
worry about monkeys down there hitting each other with sticks. Simms, I’ve got
something else to talk about. It’s delicate.”

“We
just discussed the end of the world, and you’re worried about my 
feelings
?”

“I
am in this case. You’re not coming back from Avalon. You and Frank are staying
there.”

She
scowled at me. “Fuck that, Sir.”

“No.
This is not open for debate. Simms, if things go according to plan, we will be
bringing hundreds, maybe thousands of people to Avalon. The site needs to be
prepared, or this will all be for nothing. Frank Muller for sure is staying
there, he is a civilian.”

“You
need me aboard 
Valkyrie
.”

“Not
as much as I need you on Avalon.”

“Frank
has a daughter on Earth. My mother, my brother and sister and-”

“I
know. Simms, we will get everyone we can, you know that. You or Frank being
aboard won’t change that, but your presence will be two fewer people we can
bring aboard, given our limited oxygen-recycling capacity. Listen, we won’t get
to Avalon for five days. Think about it. My door is always open,” I gestured to
the firmly closed door. “I know 
this sucks
.”

“
Sucks

doesn’t even begin to describe it. Sir, we knew this day was coming.”

“I
thought we had plenty of time. Hundreds of years. Sixty, at least.”

“Shit
happens.”

“
Emily
Perkins
 happened.”

“She
didn’t know. She did the right thing, based on what she did know. Let’s not
argue about this now. OK, I will think about it.”

“Think
about the children. Somebody needs to be in charge on Avalon, get things
organized. I’m sure Hans is doing his best, but he doesn’t know the shitstorm we’ll
be dropping on his head.”

“I 
said
,
I’ll think about it.”

 

 

Smythe
stopped just outside the door to Chang’s office. “You wished to see me, Sir?”

“Yes,”
Chang mumbled over the sandwich he was eating, a hasty meal taken from the
galley. Recently, he had not much time to eat, there was too much to do. “Come
in, sit down. Now that 
Valkyrie
 has jumped for the Beta site, I will be
addressing the crew this evening. When we reach Earth, the political situation
may be chaotic.” He knew the STAR team leader was not stupid, the man must have
considered that an evacuation effort would not be well-organized and peaceful.
He also knew that Smythe had talked with Nagatha, about potential resistance to
the evac operation. “We need to plan for taking control of the evacuation,” he
looked Smythe straight in the eyes. “
Independent
 of authorities on the
surface.”

That
was the key moment. If Smythe balked at ignoring orders from the British
government, he would need to be confined to his quarters for the duration of
the mission. The trouble was, Chang himself was uncertain what he himself would
do when they reached their homeworld. What if his own government had his family
in custody, and a gun to his wife’s head?

It
was best not to dwell on What-Ifs, until he knew the situation on the ground.

Smythe
only nodded once, curtly. As if it were a routine matter they had already
discussed. “Yes, Sir. Our first move must be to secure control of the 
Dagger

and the 
Yu Qishan
. Both to assure those assets are available for use as
transports, and to deny them to elements hostile to the evacuation.” He looked
at Chang without blinking, holding the other man’s gaze. They both knew that the
‘hostile elements’ he referred to 
were
 their own
governments.

“Our

first
 move,” Chang corrected the British Army officer, “must be to
collect intelligence. We need to know where those ships are.”

“
Er
, yes,” Smythe thought that was obvious. “May I show you
the preliminary plan I have developed? I have not discussed this with anyone,
other than Nagatha. She provided the navigation data.”

Chang
knew that. He had not known, until that moment, where Smythe’s ultimate
loyalties lay. “Show me.”

Smythe
set his tablet on the desk, and turned in the chair so they could both look at
it. “If one or both of the troop ships are near the wormhole, we have to
disable them quickly, then conduct a boarding operation to take control. Skippy
installed a backdoor in the software of both troop ships, and Nagatha has the
access codes to shut down their primary systems.”

“You
do?” Chang looked at the ceiling. “Nagatha, when were you going to tell me
about this?”

“At
the appropriate time, Colonel,” the AI replied nervously.

Chang
let out a breath. “You and I will talk later. Smythe, continue.”

“If
both ships are not waiting near the wormhole, we should,” he tapped the tablet,
showing a schematic of humanity’s home star system. “Jump in on the far side of
Saturn. Our drive can direct most of the gamma ray burst away from Earth, but I
thought it best to maximize concealment.”

“Saturn?
Not Mars or Jupiter?”

“Mars
is currently on the other side of the Sun, and Jupiter is orbited by too many
artificial satellites. NASA, the ESA, and your government all have active
probes orbiting Jupiter,” Smythe explained. “Saturn has only one active probe,
in orbit around Titan. We can time our arrival so that probe is behind Titan.
We jump in, engage stealth and coast out from Saturn’s shadow, to get a look at
the situation on Earth. When we know the location and status of forces on and
around Earth, you can select from a series of options.”

“What
will you do if both troop ships are in Earth orbit?”

Smythe
tapped the tablet again, bringing up a different view. “Jump in close to the
first ship, transmit the code to disable it, and launch a boarding party in
dropships. As soon as the dropships are clear, jump for the other ship.” He
showed the rough, preliminary plan for boarding and taking control of both
former Kristang troop ships. Chang asked a few questions, knowing the
contingency plan was in the initial stages. “There is another, complication we
must address,” Smythe added.

“You
know that I hate complications,” Chang said with a frown. “What is it this
time?”

“Nagatha
told me that, while the wormhole is opening and becoming stable, it will emit
higher than normal levels of gamma radiation. This stabilization period will
last more than eight days.”

“Yes.
We are keeping the ship at a safe distance, with defense shields up. If the
shields fail, or can’t handle the radiation, we will jump away.”

“Yes,
Sir. This side of the wormhole is not the problem. The other event horizon will
also be producing very visible gamma rays. They will be detected at 
Earth
.”

“
Ohhhh
,” Chang slumped in the chair. “You’re right.”

“The
authorities on Earth will not know why a wormhole is opening on their doorstop,
but they should recognize the radiation signature. They will understand it is
an Elder wormhole. Assuming that either the 
Yu Qishan
 or the 
Dagger

are available, they will send a ship to investigate.”

“Mm,”
Chang considered. “Very likely. Well then, we will have a greeting party when
we go through to the other side.”

Smythe
arched an eyebrow. “There could be more than a greeting party. Until the
wormhole becomes fully stable, its emergence point will be static. It will not
begin hopping around in a figure-eight pattern until after it has been stable
at the initial location for over thirteen hours, according to Nagatha. Sir, if
UNEF is smart, and we must assume they are, they will saturate the area in
front of the other event horizon, with a minefield of nukes on proximity
triggers.”

“
Shit
!”
Chang slapped the table, knowing the STAR team leader was correct. “Of course
they will. We can,” he paused to think about the situation. “We can transmit
our recognition codes, before we go through.”

“Pardon
me, Sir, but we can’t do that. I inquired about that possibility. Nagatha?”

“Colonel
Chang, due to distortion in the wormhole channel, it will not be possible to
transmit a coherent message by photons, until approximately three days after
the event horizons are stable enough for the ship to pass through. I assume you
wish to transition through as soon as possible?”

“Yes,
damn it. We can’t sit here waiting for three days.”

“There
is an option,” Smythe offered. “We can send a shielded probe through.”

“That
is correct,” Nagatha confirmed. “None of the sensor probes we have aboard 
are
 capable of surviving a wormhole transition, however, it
is possible for a missile to be modified with proper shielding. The missile
could fly through, and broadcast our recognition codes.”

Chang
tapped the desk with a finger while he thought. “That is good, it does not
solve our problem.”

“Sir?”
Smythe’s face took on a blank expression.

“If
there is a ship on the other side, they will not be able to acknowledge our
recognition signal. We will not know whether our message got through, and if
they deactivated their mine field. Now that you have me thinking about the
problem,” he shook his head. “A minefield of nukes isn’t the worst danger we
could find on the other side. If the Maxolhx have used the Broomstick wormhole
to reach Earth, they could not miss seeing a gamma ray source at the edge of
the solar system. We could come out of the wormhole, right under the guns of an
enemy task force.”

“Assuming
that Skippy is here when we go through,” Nagatha said with confidence, “he can
ask the wormhole network to tell us what is on the other side.”

“We
are 
not
 assuming Skippy will be here,” Chang chided his ship’s AI.
“Nagatha, contingency plans are developed for when things do not happen the way
we like. We must be prepared to conduct the evac without 
Valkyrie
,
initially.”

“Very
well, Colonel Chang. Please remember that, without Skippy, we cannot open the
super-duty wormhole that leads to the Sculptor dwarf galaxy. Or create a
wormhole connection to Club Skippy.”

“Yes.
As Bishop, said, we do not have a Plan ‘C’.”

 

 

The

Vortan
 hung silently in interstellar space, stationary relative to the
dormant wormhole that was awakening. The event horizon was glowing brightly then
fizzling out, emitting powerful bursts of gamma rays whenever it flared to
life. That wormhole was not as far along in its stabilization as the first one
the 
Vortan’s
 crew had encountered, it would be several more days before
it was safe for a starship to fly through.

Less
time would be required to send a probe through. Probes were expendable. The
ship’s AI estimated that, based on the pattern the wormhole was developing, it
might be possible within two days, as measured by the rotation of the Maxolhx
homeworld.

Until
then, the 
Vortan
 would observe, recording all data and trying to
understand what was happening to the local network.
  
So far, no one aboard the ship had any clue
why the ancient network had suddenly, for the first time in memory, altered its
behavior.

 

Two
days later, the 
Vortan
 launched a probe toward the event horizon that
should be stable for a moment. The timing would have to be precise to get the
probe through, and on the way back, the probe would not have the advantage of
guidance by the ship’s AI.

The
first attempt ended with the probe splattered against the wildly flaring event
horizon, its timing thrown off by spacetime distortion in front of the
wormhole. The next three attempts were also failures, though closer to success.
The next two experienced failures worse than the first probe, missing wildly.
Humiliated, the ship’s AI then tweaked its guidance algorithm again, and the
seventh probe slid through just before the event horizon collapsed.

That
seventh probe failed to report back at the appointed time, nor the next, nor
the next. On orders from Illiath, the ship kept sending expendable probes
through, with slight modifications to the heavy shielding. Success was achieved
with the eighth through fifteenth probes, in that the probes appeared to transition
through properly. No messages were received from the other side, the hellish
conditions inside the wormhole prevented any coherent radiation from getting
through.

Finally,
the 
Vortan’s
 AI exulted quietly as a probe came through from the other
end. It was probe number twelve, and while its shielding was scorched and its
processor was damaged, it was able to transmit one vital piece of information.

“Commander
Illiath,” the AI contacted the ship’s leader. “We now know where this wormhole connects
to. It is close to the planet humans call ‘Earth’.”

 

 

“Ooh!
Ooh! Joe!” Skippy called me while I was walking to the ship’s gym to shoot
baskets. The day before, I had sunk twenty-seven of thirty free throws, a major
improvement for me. “I have juicy news for you! A scoop!”

“Juicy?”
I halted, stepping into a side passageway. “Is this gossip?”

“Yes,
but for once, it’s not about 
you
.”

“It’s-
Wait. People gossip about me?”

“Ha!”
He snorted. “Only 
all the time
, Joe. Duh. What did you 
think the-”

“Why
do people talk about 
me
?”

“Seriously?
What about you is
 not
 gossip-worthy? There is your love life, or lack of
it. The ongoing speculation about you and Margaret, the-”

“Hey!
Leave Adams out of-”

“It’s
not 
me
 doing the gossiping. I mean, I occasionally will join in, to
correct the facts, or if a story needs a little help to get going, I will-”

“You’re
not really helping yourself, Skippy.”

“OK!
People also talk about the weird New England stuff you eat, like bread in a
can, and-”

“I
get the idea.”

“Really,
all the best gossip is about you. Which is surprising, given how sad and
pathetic your life is.”

“I
really appreciate how you-”

“You
also inspire the most interesting wagers, too.”

“Wagers?
People 
bet
 on 
me?
 About what?”

“
Hee
 
hee
, I’m not supposed to
say.”

“Consider
that an order, beer can.”

“Well,
if I 
have
 to. The current wager with the most action, is when the bot
that cleans your shower will suffer a nervous breakdown and need to be
recycled. Hey! If you want to get in on the action, Cadet Fangiu is giving five
to one-”

“Our

Jeraptha
 guest is speculating about me in the shower?”

“It
is a common topic of conversation, Joe. Of course he-”

“
Oof
. I hate my life. Your scoop this time is not about me?”

“No.
It is about Jennifer. She-”

“Stop
right there. Skippy, I do not want to know.”

“But-”

“Uh!”
I held up a finger to shush him. “I will not gossip about people behind their
backs.”

“Well,
Jeez, Joe, that’s how gossip 
works
. If you say it to someone’s face it-”

“Do

not
 tell me, thank you.”

“Man,
the gossip about how you are a killjoy sure is accurate.”

“Goodbye,
Skippy.”

 

 

Our
food supply was getting thin as we approached the Beta site. We had to reserve
food not only to feed the civilians aboard the ship, but also for them after
they landed on Avalon. To set an example for the crew, I was drinking a sludge
for breakfast, eating a ration bar for lunch, and dinner was either another
ration bar, or a sandwich. We still cooked hot meals for the civilians, and
even they weren’t able to feast like they did when they first came aboard our
ships. When the 
Flying Dutchman
 left Earth to search for a Beta site,
some of the cargo bays had been empty, because it was supposed to be a
relatively short mission. That was a lesson learned, I would never do that
again.

Anyway,
that evening I worked in the galley, making Chicken 
Francaise

for the civilians. They were probably getting tired of eating chicken, and we
were tired of cooking it, but we had to make do with the supplies we had left.
After we cleaned up, I set out fixings for sandwiches and went back to my cabin
to change clothes. When I came back, I anticipated being the only person who
would want to eat a Fluffernutter, so I went right to the peanut butter jar,
leaving the cold cuts and cheese for other people.

What
I saw horrified me. “
What
 is that?”

Lieutenant
DeShawn Ray turned toward me, startled. “What, Sir?”

“Th-”
I pointed with a shaking finger. “That. That, 
abomination
.”

He
looked at his plate. “It’s a Fluffernutter.”

“No.
What have you done to it?”

Touching
the abomination with his hands, which would forever be unclean, he grinned. “I
used a brioche bun instead of bread, and Nutella instead of peanut butter. Then
I added sliced banana and chocolate chips.”

“Ray,”
I said gravely, “That is a Fluffer-NOT-
er
.”

“I
am pushing the boundaries of Fluff technology,” his grin was ear to ear.

“Please,”
I shuddered. “Get it out of my sight.”

“What
are 
you
 doing, Sir?”

He
was curious, because I was scraping butter over one side of each slice of
bread. “This will be a grilled Fluffernutter, which 
is
 cutting edge
technology. Begone with you, infidel.”

While
I grilled my own creation, which was indescribably delicious by the way, Ray
sat choking down the unholy abomination he had spawned. When he finished, he
put his plate in the bin to be washed, and I watched him walk out the door. Using
a dirty towel, I picked up the plate he had used, went left through the
passageway, down one deck and toward the portside outer hull. At the nearest
airlock, I tossed in both plate and towel, shut the door and over-pressurized
the lock. “Bridge, this is Bishop. Do we have anyone EVA right now?” It would
have been easier to say ‘outside’, but Extra-Vehicular Activity was the
official term.

“Uh,
no, Sir. Why?”

“I’m
going to blow portside airlock D-7, don’t be alarmed.” Palming the emergency
controls, I slid open the outer door, and the offending plate and towel were
ejected into interstellar space.

Maybe
I overreacted, but why take the chance?

 

 

“Sir?”
Simms appeared in the doorway of my office.

“Uh,
come in,” I waved for to her sit down. It wasn’t time for our daily meeting,
and she hadn’t signaled there was a problem. I didn’t know what she wanted.
“What’s up?”

“It’s
personal.”

“Oh.”
Pressing a button under my oversized desk, the doors slid closed. My hope was
that the subject was something personal about herself, and not a problem with a
member of the crew. The crew of both ships were elite- Well, with a few
exceptions, including me. We had remarkably few discipline issues, and those
were mostly due to the boredom of off-duty time spent aboard a starship, and
seeing the same people day after day after 
Groundhog day
.
Bringing the civilians aboard had greatly improved morale. Not only had the
team achieved a great success, having children aboard kept everyone busy in our
off-duty hours. Plus, it was very rewarding to interact with children who had
been so horribly abused. I think we Pirates got more from the relationship than
the children did.

Morale
had taken a hit when we transferred all the civilians back to 
Valkyrie

for the flight to Avalon. The civilians were understandably scared and
confused, and just sick of yo-yoing back and forth between our ships.

Anyway,
that is what was on my mind while Simms sat down across from me.

She
took a breath, and pressed her hands together in her lap. That could have been
a sign of trouble, except she looked 
happy
. “Frank and I, we-”

Oh,
shit. I felt a chill shoot up my spine. Had they broken off their engagement?

“We
want to get married,” she finished.

“Oh,”
I let out a breath, relieved. “Yeah, with the engagement thing and all,” I said
stupidly.

“We
want to get married 
now
,” she explained, sensing my cluelessness. “Here,
aboard the ship. Before we get to Avalon. There will be too much to do after we
land.” She sighed. “Frank and I should have made this decision while the 
Dutchman

was nearby, so they could be with us, 
but,
 there was
too much going on.”

“Oh!
Great! Congratulations, to both of you.” Suddenly, my veil of cluelessness
lifted, and I knew why she had come to my office. Also, I knew what gossip
Skippy had wanted to tell me. “As I’m sure you know, ship captains can perform
marriages. I would be honored-”

“Um,
we have someone to perform the ceremony. Alvarez, from the Commandos? He was a
minister in his church, before the Force left Earth.”

“And
he’s a Commando?”

“He
says God called him to kill lizards,” she smiled. “That was a joke, Sir. The
minister gig was a sideline. He agreed to perform the ceremony.”

“Gotcha,”
I tried to conceal my disappointment. “Listen, Simms, brides usually have a
bridesmaid, but I’m happy to be your best-”

“Reed
will be my bridesmaid.”

“Huh.
Well, I don’t know Frank very well, but-”

“Friedlander
will be Frank’s best man.”

 
“Hmm. OK.” That told me I might be the last
person aboard the ship to know about the upcoming wedding. “You, uh, want me to
throw a bachelor party for Frank?”

“Friedlander
is handling that. It’s going to be a small affair, just a couple of Frank’s
friends.”

“All
right, then. You, uh, want me to bake the cake? I’ve never made a-”

“I’ve
got that covered.”

“OK.
Uh, is there anything you want me to do?”

“Yes,”
she sighed, relieved. She had felt the conversation getting awkward. “
Please

tell Skippy he can’t sing at the wedding.”

“Shit.
That’s what you want?”

“Really,
Sir, it would be the 
best
 wedding present we could ask for.”

“Well,
sure,” I smiled, sure the disappointment was showing on my face. “Anything for
you, Simms. Uh, will this be a military wedding?”

“No.
For once in my life, I would like to wear a
 nice
 dress. I have been a
bridesmaid half a dozen times, now it’s my turn.”

“Gotcha.
Is it OK if I wear my dress uniform?”

“Certainly,
Sir.”

“Is
that all?”

“No.
At the reception, we need a DJ.”

“Wow.
That is going to be tough. If Skippy is going to be the DJ, he will want to
sing.”

“No,”
she laughed. “Will 
you
 be the DJ?”

“
Me
?”

“You’ve
done it before.”

“Well,
yeah.” I had no idea that anyone actually enjoyed it when I played DJ. I
figured the crowd was being polite because I was their commanding officer. Hearing
that lifted my mood immediately. “That would be great! Uh, what type of music
does Frank enjoy?”

“We
can talk about a playlist this evening, at 
dinner?
 We
are hoping to schedule the wedding for the day after tomorrow?”

I
pretended to check my calendar. “Gosh, I am extremely busy, but, for 
you
,
I can make it happen.”

 

Of
course Skippy had been listening. Simms had no sooner left my office, when his
avatar appeared on my desk. “
Hmmph
,” he had his arms
crossed. “No singing? Well, that was going to be my present to the happy couple.
I am insulted.”

Sometimes,
my brain is able to think fast. That was one of those times. “Skippy, listen,”
I lowered my voice to a conspiratorial whisper. “It’s not an insult.”

“You
sure about that? It feels like an insult.”

“I’m
sure,” I lied. “This is the big day for Simms. The focus should be on the 
bride
,
you 
know?
 If you are there singing, who could think
about anything else? You would totally steal the show.”

“Huh,”
he tilted his head thoughtfully. “OK, OK, yeah, I can see that. Hmm, it still
seems awfully selfish of her, to deprive her guests of my incredible talent.”

“It’s
just 
one
 day. This is her special day, you understand?”

“All
right, fine. You know me, I am all about giving to others.”

“That’s
what everyone says about you,” I sprained my eyeballs, trying not to roll them.

“Plan
B, then. I will help you with the DJ duties.”

“I
was 
kinda
 hoping to do that myself.”

“
You
?
OK, you be the front man, but, seriously, you need help. I just sent a playlist
to your laptop.”

“Uh,”
I looked at the file that popped up. “No.”

“No?”

“Skippy,
Swedish death metal is not appropriate for a wedding!”

“Says

you
.”

“Says

everyone
.”

“But-”

“No.
Death. Metal. And no Tibetan throat singing. And no,” I checked the list.
“Seriously, Klingon opera?”

“It
is very popular, Joe.”

“I’ll
pass on that.”

“How
come you get to have all the fun?”

“Skippy,
you’re not thinking about this the right way. I will be the DJ, sure, but
nobody cares about the DJ. I’ll be the guy in the background, spinning tunes. 
Your

contributions will be front and center, everyone will be talking about them.”

“How?”

“Where
do you think Simms is going to get a wedding dress? And Frank will need a tux,
right?”

“Wow.

Wow
.” He gasped. “
Me
? Design a wedding dress?” His avatar
actually shuddered. “This is 
exciting
. Oh, I can’t wait to get started.
It will be 
magical
, Joe.”

“Uh
huh, if that’s what Simms wants.”

“Oh
for- Brides don’t know what is good for them, Joe. I will design a-”

“You
will design whatever Simms wants.”

“Oh,
sure. I will allow her to have input, of course. 
Oooh
,
I should contact her now, and get started right away.”

“Give
her a minute, Skippy. She has a lot to think about.”

“What?
There is no 
time
, Joe! Ugh, why am I wasting time talking with you?” His
avatar winked out.

 

Frank
Muller had, as did everyone aboard the two ships of the Pirate fleet, plenty of
opportunities to talk with Skippy. Perhaps more than enough opportunities. And
perhaps it was more Skippy talking 
to
, instead of with, him.

So,
it was no great shock to Frank when the AI called him. Calling him while he was
trying to shave in the bathroom was a bit startling, as he was standing in his
underwear at the sink.

“Frank!
Frank 
Frank
 
Frank
-”

“
Sk
-” He had inhaled a blob of shaving cream. Coughing it
out, he spat in the sink. “Skippy. What’s the emergency?”

“No
emergency, I have wonderful news! Um, congrats on the wedding thing, I guess.”

“Thank
you, I guess.”

“Great.
Now that we have all the blah blah blah social niceties out of the way, you
have been granted the incredible honor of having 
me
 design and fabricate
a tuxedo for you.”

“That
is,” what should he say. What 
could
 he say? He settled for a neutral
“Very nice.”

“It
is beyond ‘nice’, but you can thank me properly later. Let’s get started, chop 
chop
, no time to waste. Your first option-”

“Skippy,
I’m in the middle of shaving,” he looked at himself in the mirror. “I haven’t
done half of my face.”

“Trust
me, no one will notice. Just rinse it off.”

“Hey!”
Frank protested when the mirror flickered, and displayed the image of a gaudy
suit. “I can’t see myself. Is this,” he peered at the mirror, having never
looked at it closely before. “Is this thing a 
display
 screen?”

“Of
course it is. Normally it is set to mirror mode. Yeesh, you monkeys sure do
like looking at yourselves.”

“Is
this a 
two-way
 display?”

“Yes.
How else do you think I’ve been watching you? I have your measurements
programmed in-”

“Stop!”
Frank crouched down below the level of the too-low sink. Pulling a towel off a
rack, he wrapped it around himself. “You have been 
watching
 me?”

“Just
to get your measurements. And to check your vital signs. You should cut down on
processed food.”

“The
only food we 
have
 is processed.”

“I’m
just 
sayin
’, it wouldn’t kill you to eat a salad once
in a while.”

Frank
sighed. “Jennifer says the same thing. If I look at these tuxedos now, will you
go away?”

“Deal.
This won’t take long. First, we have my personal choice, this snappy number is
made from simulated 
alligator
 skin. 
Ooooh
,
check it out. Nice, huh?”

“Uh,
no.”

“Are
you sure? I really think you are missing a huge opportunity here,” Skippy
pleaded.

“Skippy,”
he laughed. “I can’t start my marriage by showing up for the wedding in that
outfit.”

“Why
not? Think of it this way: if she hates it and marries you anyway, you are
truly made for each other.”

“I’d
rather not take the risk, if you don’t mind.”

“OK,”
Skippy muttered. “Why do I get stuck with the uncultured cretins? Number two on
the list is simulated 
sharkskin
.”

“Also
no.”

“Hmm,
I’m sensing you want something more conservative. Let’s go with the classic, traditional
powder blue?”

“Let’s
not. Black, Skippy. Basic black.”

“
Ugh
.
So boring. You are getting married on a stolen starship, don’t you want to
shake things up?”

“I
want to 
not
 shake up my fiancé.”

“Good
point. OK, give me a moment to make an adjustment, and, presto!”

“That
is,” Frank tilted his head to the left, then the right. “Interesting.”

“See?
Basic black, but also 
cool
, huh? 
Ha
! Suck it, boring tuxedos!”

“Is
that a 
ninja
 suit?”

“Of
course. Basic black, as you requested. The shiny crossed katana swords on your
back add a touch of bling, without being tacky. Plus, the head covering means
you won’t have to bother shaving that day, either.”

“I
love it.”

“Excellent!

Whoo-hoo
! This is gonna be-”

“Jennifer
would 
hate
 it. So, no.”

“It
is 
your
 wedding, too, Frank.”

“Clearly,
you have never been married before.”

“This
is 
so
 unfair! You don’t get a say in anything?”

“First,
I don’t care. Second, uh, I guess second is also that I don’t care. If Jennifer
is happy, I will be happy.”

“You
don’t have any opinion on the tux you will be wearing?”

“No.
Uh, hey. What’s the movie with that guy Mister Darcy?”

“Do
you mean ‘Pride and Prejudice’, or ‘Bridget Jones’s Diary’?”

“The
one with people dressed up in fancy clothes, and Darcy falls in a lake?”

“The
first one. What about it?”

“Jen
loves that damned movie. Can you make me a suit like Darcy wore?”

“You
realize I can’t make you 
look
 like him, right?”

“Give
it your best shot.”

“Deal!
You will not regret this.”

 

That
night at 0217, Skippy woke me up, because of course he did. “Joe! Hey, hey,
Joe. Are you asleep?”

“Yes.”

“Oh
goodie. Listen, I need a favor from you.”

“Can
this wait until morning?” I mumbled without opening my eyes.

“No.
It’s an emergency!”

“Shit.”
Sitting up in bed, I swung my feet onto the floor, feeling around for the shoes
I had put there. “What is it?”

“It’s
Simms. She cannot, or will not, make up her freakin’ mind.”

“You’re
kidding- Is this about the wedding?”

“Of
course it is. How can I think about anything else at a time like this? Time!
There 
is
 no time! Joe, I need you to step in, and order her to say ‘Yes’
to the dress.”

“No.

Hell
, no.”

“But-”

“Skippy,
I would rather French-kiss a cobra. That would be safer. You do not tell a
woman what kind of dress she should wear. It is her decision.”

“I
agree, if she would actually 
choose
 one. Any one, at this point. Except
for those 
horrible
 designs she showed me, ugh,” he gagged. “I don’t know

what
 she was thinking. Man, you think you know a person, and then-”

“Good
night, Skippy,” I flopped back on the bed and threw a pillow over my head.

“You’re
not going to help?” He screeched, outraged.

My
answer was in the form of a single digit, and it was not my thumb, if you know
what I mean.

“Fine.
This travesty will be all 
your
 fault, Joe. See if I care.”

 

 

The
wedding was magical. Or, as magical as it could be, in one of the empty cargo
bays we had set aside for recreation. The play equipment had been packed away
or jammed against the walls under tarps. I have to say, Skippy outdid himself.
The dress that Simms wore was elegant and looked great on her, except as her
commanding officer I of course did not notice her appearance. Skippy made an
extra effort when using the ship’s fabricators to crank out decorations,
wedding favors and little gifts. Every one of the civilians had fancy new
clothes, the girls were thrilled and the boys uncomfortable as expected.
Frank’s tux did not look any more uncomfortable than usual, and I heard that he
had talked Skippy out of making the tux from simulated alligator skin.

Really,
I think Frank missed a great opportunity there, but it wasn’t my wedding.

I
wore my dress uniform. The newest dark green one, not the dark blue one that
had been hanging in my closet forever. The uniform was big on me, Skippy had to
alter the pants to take in the waist. The weight I had lost on Rikers hadn’t
come back yet, that was probably a good thing.

And
there was 
food
 at the reception, perhaps a bit too extravagant
considering our dwindling stocks of real food. Although I did not make the
official cake, I did bake fourteen dozen cupcakes, which disappeared like a
school of cupcake-eating piranhas had attacked the platters.

The
best part-

OK,
the best part for 
me
, I mean, was-

Oof
. Yes, I know I should say the best part for me was seeing Jennifer and
Frank so happy. That part was nice. But 
everyone
 was happy for them.
Only
 I
 got to be the DJ.

Yes,
that makes me a terrible person. Get over it, OK?

Anyway,
I was spinning hit tunes, and everyone was dancing. The children all danced
like nobody was watching, which is really the way everyone should dance.
Reading the crowd, I played high-energy up-tempo dance tunes, then gave people
a break with slower songs. Not just running through a programmed playlist, I
added my own touch as the DJ.

During
the beginning of one slow song, Skippy shouted into my earpiece. “Joe, what the
hell was 
that
?”

“What
are you talking about? I played a song, 
duh
.”

“No,
you 
ruined
 a song. Parts of it kept repeating endlessly, like the file
got caught in a loop. And what was that when the song stopped, and you dragged
your fingernails on a blackboard?”

“That
was a hip-hop song, shithead. It’s called backspin and scratching. The crowd 
loved

it.”

“
Really
?
Jeez, it sounded like you had trouble with the power supply. I actually sent a
bot to fix the problem.”

“No
problem here, except you don’t appreciate good music.”

“That
was 
music
? Wow. Your DJ name should be ‘Grandmaster 
Shmoe

and the Intermittent Power Failures’.”

“Just
call me ‘DJ Joey B’, please.”

“Sure,”
he sniffed. “If the ‘B’ stands for ‘Bonehead’.”

“Goodbye,
Skippy.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTY

 

“Hey,
Joe,” Skippy called me, and instantly my brain went to Red Alert. It was not
the ‘
Heeeeey
, Joe’ he used when he was about to
casually drop a metric ton of shit on my head. This was the even more frightening
tone of voice he used when he was trying to get away with something. Like when
a kid says ‘hey Mom’ before asking if they can borrow a chainsaw, a can of Pam
cooking spray, and oh, do we have a flamethrower in the garage?

“What
sneaky shit are you up to now, Skippy?” We had gone through the super-duty
wormhole to the Sculptor dwarf galaxy, then through the password-protected
wormhole that led to the Beta site. Within three hours, the ship should be approaching
Avalon, and I was in my office, reviewing a list of all the supplies we needed
to send down to the surface before the passengers could be landed.

“I
am insulted,” he sniffed. “Maybe now I don’t feel like telling you.”

“Score
one for the monkey,” I muttered.

“
Fine
,”
he spat. “Be that way.”

“I
intend to.”

 

He
waited a full twenty seconds before speaking again, a delay that must have been
agony for him, so, bonus. “Joe, as much as I am insulted by your totally unfair
insinuations, I feel that I must discuss the situation before we get to Avalon.
I’m doing it for 
you
.”

“Please
don’t.”

“But-”

“Really,
I’m good. No need to trouble yourself about it.”

“Unfortunately,
Joe,” he sighed in a way that made it obvious he was doing it for effect. “My
extreme awesomeness gives me a responsibility to act, even when you think it is
not necessary.”

It
was obvious that he was not taking ‘No’ for an answer. My choice was either
listen to him and get it over with, or for him to wake me up in the middle of
the freakin’ night. “My apologies, Your Magnificence. What awful danger must
you protect us monkeys from now?”

“That’s
the problem, Joe. I don’t know.”

That
got my attention. Whatever sneaky shit he wanted to get into, it was actually
important. “You don’t know 
what
?”

“I
don’t know whether the potential danger is an actual danger.”

“What
potential danger?”

“Maris.”

“Oh,
shit. This again?” In the Roach Motel, there was a planet that Skippy couldn’t
see, but inferred its location from the effect of its gravity on other worlds
in that system. We had named that unseen world ‘Vera’. At the Beta site, he
strongly suspected there a similar unseen world that we had, of course, named
‘Maris’.

“Yes,
this again.”

“We
talked about this already.”

“No,

you
 talked about it. I raised legitimate concerns and you ignored me.”

“Yes,
and I intend to continue ignoring you.”

“Joe,
can we be serious here for a minute?”

“I
don’t know. Can 
you
?”

“I
will try. Listen, numbskull, you-”

“
This

is you being serious?”

“You
are 
not
 a numbskull?”

“Just,
say whatever it is you’re going to say.”

“We
need to check it out, Joe.”

“Skippy,
I know you are burning with curiosity to find out why the Elders concealed an
entire planet here. I’m going to tell you the same thing that I told you about
the hidden planet in the Roach Motel: 
no
. We are not going to risk waking
up whatever is hidden in there.”

“Vera
was different, Joe.”

“How
is this different?”

“The
Elders did not want anyone going to the Roach Motel. Here, the Elders did not
install Guardians or a Sentinel, or any other protective measures.”

“They
didn’t have to, because getting here requires waking up a super-duty wormhole,
then giving the correct password to another wormhole. The answer is still ‘
no
’.”

“Think
about this: you are putting all your eggs in 
one
 basket here. Avalon
might soon be the only place in the universe where humans exist. Maris is an
unknown, an unknown 
risk
.”

“Shit.”

“I’m
right, aren’t I?”

“Maybe.”

“Is
that a ‘Yes’?”

“I 
said
,
maybe.”

“It

sounded
 like a ‘Yes’.”

“Shit,”
I groaned.

“
That

really sounded like a ‘Yes’.”

“Show
me what you know about this place.”

 

He
showed me. Maris was most likely a gas giant planet, roughly the size of Saturn.
Skippy knew its overall mass, rough size and other characteristics from the
effect of its gravity on other planets, even on how Maris made the star wobble.
So, why didn’t he know exactly where it was? Because the Elders had a
technology that could disperse the planet’s gravitational field. Instead of its
gravity creating a single dent in the fabric of spacetime, Maris dug a shallow
trench along its orbit. For several million kilometers in either direction
along its orbital track, it was like the planet was a string of boulders
equaling the mass of that world. How could Skippy be sure that world had not
been pulverized and actually converted to a long, narrow asteroid belt? Because
the stealth field was smaller than the gravity well, or gravity trench. There
was a real planet in there somewhere. The question was, what was 
so

damned important that the Elders had concealed the entire freakin’ planet, in a
star system outside the galaxy where no one could get to?

“Sorry,
Skippy,” I shook my head. “Maris has been quiet so far. If we leave it alone,
it will probably leave us alone.”

“It
could be a sleeping 
bear
, Joe.”

“Yes,
and one thing I know is, do not poke a sleeping bear with a stick. I agree that
it’s a risk, even an unknown risk. At this point, my judgment is the risk of
finding out the truth is greater than the risk of not knowing the truth.”

“Are
you sure, Joe? If something goes wrong here because you failed to determine
that Maris is not a threat, you will get the blame.”

“UNEF
can add it to my blame bill,” I let out a long, weary breath. “Listen, I
understand the issue. There’s no upside to poking our noses around a planet the
Elders want to keep hidden. Leave it be.”

“But-”

“No
‘buts’, Skippy. Whatever is at Maris has not reacted to us being on Avalon, and
I am not going to jeopardize that. If we had another Beta site without a hidden
planet, I would go there instead. We don’t, so we are not doing anything
stupid. End of discussion.”

 

 

With
the civilians anxious and frightened that we were dumping them on Avalon
forever, but intensely curious to see the new world that was in 
another
galaxy
, I flew down to the surface aboard the first dropship. It was stuffed
with equipment to set up temporary housing, that needed to be set up before we
could bring a large number of people down from 
Valkyrie
. There were
empty shelters in the main camp, left from when Avalon was first being surveyed
as a potential Beta site. It was now the default Beta site, since we had no
other option.

When
we jumped into orbit, I was pleased to see extensive fields of crops growing
around the main settlement, and signs that the small group of people down there
had been very busy. The campsite was now a proper village, with a large shelter
in the center and residential huts clustered around. In the flat area to the
north, abandoned aircraft were parked under tarps at what used to be an
airfield. It all looked neat and orderly. I had to remind myself that the acres
of crops were still being tested for suitability for growing on a new planet,
and there was a lot of work to do before farmland on Avalon could feed the
growing population.

Seeing
those few acres of well-tended crops reminded me that we needed to bring a 
lot

of food from Earth.

When
my dropship touched down at the old airfield, and the dust settled, I squeezed
between crates in the main cabin to exit by the side door. Hans Chotek was
there to greet me. We had talked while I was aboard 
Valkyrie
, so he knew
the situation. He wasn’t any happier about it than anyone else, and I
appreciated that he kept the other UN Commissioners, off my back for a while. There
would be plenty of time for the three of them to yell to me before I took 
Valkyrie

to rendezvous with the 
Dutchman
 and hopefully, go through Backstop to
Earth.

“
Guten
 tag, Joe,” Hans said with as much of a smile as he
could manage. “Has a miracle occurred since we last spoke?”

“Sorry,
no,” I shook my head. He offered a hand to shake but I wasn’t going for that
shit, I pulled him into a bear hug.

He
grunted. “Ooh, I hurt my back yesterday.” We separated and he winced. “We have
all been working in the fields every day.”

“You
OK?”

“Doctor
Skippy said it’s just a pulled muscle. There are pills aboard your ship
somewhere.”

“If
Doctor Skippy orders more tests, you should say no.”

Another
dropship was coming in on final approach, so I gestured for my copilot to secure
the spacecraft, and Hans led the way off the airfield. “Smythe’s STAR team is
aboard the Dutchman,” I didn’t explain why. Hans was smart, he could figure it
out by himself. “We have some new people aboard, a Commando team from
Paradise.”

He
looked at me sharply, questioning.

“It’s
a long story,” I explained as a way of not explaining. “Half of the Commandos
are with us, they will use their powered suits to unload the dropships, make
the process go faster. This will be a short visit; 
Valkyrie
 is out of
here as soon as Simms is satisfied you have everything we can spare.”

“She
still plans to remain here?’

“Yes.”

“This,”
he pointed to the cluster of huts, “will not be much of a honeymoon for her.”

“I
don’t think she cares at this point. Hans, we are all very worried about the
civilians, especially the children. They went through hell on Rikers, and we
haven’t helped. They have been bounced back and forth between our ships, on
Club Skippy, and now we are dropping them here. They need whatever stability
you can give them.”

“Children
can be surprisingly resilient,” he told me.

“Everyone
has a breaking point.”

 

Three
hours later, my dropship was being unloaded. Soon, I would be riding back into
orbit. It would be my last opportunity to talk privately with Simms, and I
wanted her advice about something that was bothering me.

“Hey,
Skippy, I need to talk with Simms.”

“Well,
ping her, knucklehead. Do I have to do everything around here?”

“What
I want to talk about is personal. About her, not me. She won’t like the idea of
anyone listening, so I’m going to leave my phone in camp, OK?”

“Um,
this is more than a little odd, Joe.”

“It’s
important. Do you want Simms to know you insisted on listening to us?”

“No
way. You two have fun. Just don’t get eaten by a bear.”

“There
aren’t any dangerous predators on this planet.”

Pulling
my earpiece out, I left it and my phone in my backpack. Simms was doing
something on her laptop, sitting on a folding chair under the shade of an
awning. Walking over to her, I mimed pulling something from my ear. “XO, you
wanted to talk about that thing?”

Her
face was blank. “Thing, Sir?”

“Yeah,
you know. That thing you wanted to talk about.” Silently, I mouthed ‘leave your
phone here’.

She
gave me the side-eye, both eyebrows raised in alarm. “That thing, right.”

 

We
walked away from the camp, first along a trail, then cutting across country,
pushing aside giant ferns until we reached a creek. I sat down on a
moss-covered rock and she sat on a rock that wasn’t so covered with squishy
moss. “This is far enough from camp,” I said.

“You
want to tell me what this is about, Sir?”

“It’s
about Skippy. We may have a major problem.”

“Worse
than all the problems we have now?”

“Yeah.
Any solution to our problems requires Skippy to help us. Without his help, or
if he is working against us, then nothing we do will matter.”

“You’re
scaring me. Why would you think Skippy would ever work against us?”

“He
wouldn’t do it deliberately, but he might not have a choice.” I told her
Skippy’s suspicions about why the AI at Newark stopped fighting.

“There
could be a 
time bomb
 inside him?”

“That
is one possibility, yes. It is not the worst-case scenario.”

“It’s

not
?”

“No.
Worst-case is, he has been subtly and subconsciously working against us for a
while. Skippy told us the wormhole network screwed with him, that he didn’t
know it was going to move other wormholes, and open dormant wormholes. Maybe
that is true. Or maybe some hidden part of Skippy knew about it all along.”

“Oh
my-”

“We
only have Skippy’s word for what happens when he talks to a wormhole network.
He could have ordered the network to relocate and open the Broomstick
wormhole.”

“Don’t.
Sir, just, 
don’t
.”

“Don’t
what?”

“Don’t
go down that rabbit hole. 
If
. If Skippy is subconsciously working
against us. That is a lot of 
ifs
. We have no way to know if some part of
him has betrayed us, 
he
 has no way to know. It is not productive to
worry about what we can’t control. Like you said, we don’t have a choice. We
need Skippy, or we might as well give up right now.”

“Yeah.
You’re right. Sorry to dump this on you.”

“Sir,
I’m your executive officer. After all the time we’ve served together, I hope
you know that I am also your 
friend
.” She reached out a hand, and I took
hers and squeezed it. “When you are worried about something like this, 
tell
me
. You need to talk to someone about things like this. I’m glad you felt
comfortable telling me.”

“Thanks
for being here.” I let go of her hand before I got awkward. Crap. I felt guilty
for not telling her the truth about why Skippy bailed on us at Rikers.

Someday.
I would wait to tell her the truth later.

“I
understand why you wanted to talk about this without Skippy listening.”

“Yeah,
he’s-”

“You’re

wrong
 about that, Sir.”

“I
am?”

“Yes.
Skippy needs to know that his subconscious might already be working against
him, so he can watch for any signs of that happening. Otherwise, this is just
us having a useless conversation.”

“Shit.
The reason I didn’t tell him was, he is already freaked out about the
possibility of a time bomb inside him. But he needs to know, you’re right.”

“I
usually am, Sir. You need to 
trust
 your team.”

“You’re
right about that, too. Let’s get back.”

Recovering
my phone, I stuck the earpiece back in. Skippy called me immediately. “Hey,
Joe. Did you have a good talk with Simms? It wasn’t, um, a female issue, was
it?”

“Simms
is a woman, not a ‘
female
’, Skippy. And no, it wasn’t about her. We were
talking about you.”

“
Me
?
Why didn’t you-”

I
told him.

“Wow.”
His voice sounded far away. “OK. While I am pissed at you for not telling me upfront,
I guess I have to thank you for considering my feelings.”

“Well,
I do try to-”

“Even
though you were 
completely
 incompetent about it.”

“Doing
the best I can here.”

“Do

better
, Joe. We can talk about 
that
 later. Right now, I need to
think about what you said. Shit. The only way to know is for me to ask the
wormhole network exactly what instructions I gave to it.”

“Can
you do that here, with the wormhole here?”

“No.
That is something I can only discuss with the local network near Earth. Do you
want to hear a bit of good news?”

“Please,
anything.”

“While
it is possible that a subconscious part of me gave the wrong instructions to
the network, I doubt that could have happened. The protocol I used required the
network to repeat my instructions back to me, so I could verify it understood
what I wanted. Why did I do that? Because I don’t trust the stupid thing. The
problem is, I didn’t distrust it 
enough
.”

“That
is good news. You keep doing that.”

“Will
do, Joe.”

 

 

With
the civilians settling unhappily in prefab shelters on the surface of Avalon,
we got dropships stuffed with just about every type of supplies we had aboard
the ship, leaving just enough food and other consumables for the trip back to
Earth, plus a two-week margin for safety. Unloading the ship was a pain in the
ass, because 
Valkyrie
 had been designed as a battlecruiser, not a cargo
ship. Battlecruisers were supposed to travel with escort and support ships, so
they were not designed to be self-supporting for extended times.

Anyway,
I was walking between docking bays when I saw Doctor Friedlander staring out a
viewport. There weren’t many actual windows aboard the ship, mostly to see
outside we used viewscreens. I understood the desire to actually see something
through a window, it seemed more real. “What’s up, Doc?” I asked.

He
grinned at the joke, but his smile faded quickly. “Our new home,” he tapped the
glass of the viewport which was really a flexible type of diamond material. “It
is hard to believe that we will be trying to set up an entire 
civilization

down there.”

“Hopefully,
yes.” Maybe I should not have said ‘hopefully’. “It’s rough now, but someday,
we will have schools and churches and concert halls down there.”

“That’s
not all. We need to build an industrial base, on the surface and up here.”

“Well,
sure, that-”

“We
need to build starships. A 
war 
fleet.”

“Uh-”
It surprised me to hear him talk that way. “The whole point of setting up a
Beta site way out here, is that it is a safe haven from hostile aliens. If we
ever need a fleet of warships out here, we’re in trouble.”

“It’s
not that,” he turned to look out the viewport again. Over his shoulder, I could
see the surface of Avalon. What was in view at that moment was mostly water
dotted with islands, it looked inviting. “We don’t need ships for protection.
We need them for 
payback
.”

“Doctor,
I hear you. 
Valkyrie
 is a powerful ship, but even a fleet of 
Valkyries

won’t be able to do much against-”

“Not
a ship like 
this
,” he 
rapped
 his knuckles on
the bulkhead. “Something better. A ship with Elder technology.”

“Whoa.
We don’t have any-”

“Skippy
knows that tech,” he insisted. “We 
can
 build an Elder ship, or something
equivalent.”

“Doctor,
I appreciate your enthusiasm. It will take-”

“A
long time, yes. I’ve talked about this with Skippy. He said it would take
thousands of years, and the resources of multiple star systems, to even begin
producing the materials for constructing an Elder ship. I told him,” he glanced
back down at the nearly-empty planet below us. “We have time. Out here,” his
voice dropped to a whisper. “We will have nothing but time.”

“I
think you’re forgetting something,” I said gently.

“Colonel,
if you are going to lecture me about whether getting payback for the
destruction of Earth is morally-”

“Oh,

fuck
 that,” I spat. “The Maxolhx already deserve a beat-down. I don’t
give a shit about them. The problem is, your plan has a major downside for 
us
.”

“It
does? What?”

“We
can’t use Elder technology. The kitties did that, remember? They used Elder
weapons to attack the spiders, and Sentinels appeared to crush both of them. If
we construct ships that deploy Elder weapons, we risk Sentinels wiping out
Avalon.”

“
Shit
,”
he cursed, and I realized that was the only time I had ever heard the good
doctor use a bad word. “Maybe Skippy can figure a way around that problem.”

“It’s
all academic at this point, right?” I clapped a hand on his shoulder. “That’s a
question for our grandchildren.”

That
remark made him smile. “I would like to have grandchildren.” He looked back at
the planet. “Never thought that my grandchildren would grow up in another 
galaxy
.”

“Hey,
this is just a dwarf galaxy, think of it as like the suburbs of the Milky Way.”

He
snorted. “If this is the suburbs, it needs more golf courses.”

“Maybe
you can work on that,” I suggested.

“Probably
I should build a house first.”

“You
should probably 
design
 a house first,” I said, figuring that would
appeal to him as an engineer.

“Yeah,”
he looked down at the planet. “Maybe I’ll do that.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTY ONE

 

“Skippy,”
I flopped down into my oversized office chair. Sitting in that thing always
made me feel like a little kid. Like it was Bring Your Child to Work day, and I
was sitting at my father’s desk. Except my father didn’t have a desk. As he
said it, he worked for a living. “Give me some good news, please.”

“Sorry
Joe,” his avatar looked crestfallen. “I looked in the bottom of my Good News
bag, and all I see is a few crumbs.”

“I’ll
take those.”

“Hmm.
I think those crumbs got eaten by a rat, and this is what’s left behind, if you
know what I mean.”

“Forget
it.”

“Sorry.
Really, I wish I had some good news for you. I should have warned you this
would happen.”

That
made me sit bolt upright in the chair. “You 
ass
! You knew the wormhole
network would move-”

“
Whoa
!
Slow your roll there, 
pardner
. No. I did not know
that. Not that specifically. What I did know was that we have seriously been
pushing our luck, and it was bound to run out soon.”

“I
thought there is no such thing as ‘luck’?”

“There
isn’t. Not the way you think of the concept. Joe, the survival of your species
was always improbable right from the beginning. Each time you pulled off some
improbable stunt that saved the world, your future options got narrower.”

“What?”

“How
can I explain this to you? How am I 
allowed
 to explain it? OK, try this.
The Universe does not like improbable things happening, and we have done a lot
of improbable things. The fact that the White Wind clan has not enslaved or
exterminated all humans on Earth is improbable. On our second mission, when we
used our space truck to stop a Thuranin ship from reaching Earth, that was even
more improbable, you get that?”

“I
think so. It’s like rolling dice. Each time you roll, you have a one-in-six
chance of getting a six. If you roll a six, it is not any less likely you will
roll a six the next time. But it is unlikely you will get a six 
every

time if you roll a hundred times. Something like that?”

“Eh,
close enough. Joe, you have done so many improbable things already, that the
future path for the survival of humanity is a 
very
 narrow set of
probabilities. You have almost 
no
 margin for error.”

“Did,
you just say,” I said slowly, the wheels turning in my mind. “That there 
is

a possibility we can save the world again? How?”

“Ugh.
I should not try explaining complicated things to you, it just gets your hopes
up. The answer is ‘Yes’, and ‘I don’t know’. Yes, technically, the probability
set has not yet collapsed entirely, but it is an 
extremely
 narrow
window.”

“You
can see the freakin’ future?”

“No.
Not like that. I can make predictions. That’s all I can say. It’s a math thing,
you wouldn’t understand, even if I was allowed to tell you.”

“You
know I hate it when you give me hints like that. Can you give me an example?”

“Sure.
On our Renegade mission, the probability set was almost as restricted as it is
now. We had to accomplish the impossible: stopping Maxolhx ships from reaching
Earth, in a way that made them think their ships 
did
 go to Earth and
found nothing interesting. And that the disappearance of those ships was not at
all suspicious. Oh, plus, we had to explain the intermittent gamma rays coming
from the Gateway wormhole. It was an impossible task, yet we did it. 
You

did it. After that, the probability set expanded dramatically, though less than
I expected. I couldn’t understand the data, until, you know, we heard about
what Perkins did.”

“Holy
shit. You knew something was wrong, and you didn’t 
say
 anything about
it?!” I thumped a fist on the desk.

“No,
I didn’t 
know
 anything was wrong. There was something unexplained in the

math
, that’s all. Listen, knucklehead, it was just a nerdy math thing,
OK?”

His
explanation sounded like pure bullshit to me, but I didn’t have any evidence to
back up my suspicions. Besides, I did not believe that Skippy could truly see
the future. Maybe that technology was possible, I had seen a whole lot of sci
fi movies about time travel. But I was certain that Skippy didn’t have that
ability. Why? Because if he could see the future, no way could that arrogant
little shithead miss the opportunity to brag about it. Many times, he had been
humiliated by declaring something was impossible, only to have a meatsack think
up a clever idea to solve the problem. Still, there was something he wasn’t
telling me, and I hated that. “Skip the math. The Universe is saying there 
is

a possibility to prevent an attack against Earth, for humanity to survive?”

“Um,
the Universe is not saying that, it- OK, I guess you would think that. The math
is saying it is not absolutely impossible. But, Joe, please understand the
odds. It’s like your team has lost all your games in the first half of the
season, and the team leading your division has won all their games.
Mathematically, it is possible that you could win all your remaining games and
the other team could lose all theirs, so you 
could
 go to the playoffs
and win the Super Bowl. But, come on, that will not actually happen.”

“So,
you’re saying there 
is
 a chance?”

“Ugh.
No, not really. It was a mistake to even mention the subject.”

“Skippy,
do you know what a Hail Mary is?”

“Um,
yes. I’m not Catholic, so if you are suggesting prayer is-”

“I
meant in sports. A Hail Mary play.”

“Sure.
Pack the end zone with receivers and toss the ball to them.”

“Ayuh.
That, or a ridiculous set of laterals back and forth until somebody runs the
ball in for a touchdown. Believe me, I have seen that happen way too many
times, always when the 
other
 team does it. It 
can
 happen.”
Slapping my laptop closed, I stood up. “Where is Simms?”

“She
is in Docking Bay Three Alpha.”

“Tell
her I’ll be right there.”

 

She
wasn’t exactly waiting for me. She was busy supervising the loading of supplies
aboard a dropship. Rather than combat loading, where the stuff you need first
goes in the container last, our priority was speed, cramming dropships full so
they made the minimum number of trips to get everything down to the surface. We
wanted to empty the ship quickly, so 
Valkyrie
 could fly to meet the 
Dutchman
.
It was like a going-out-of-business sale; everything must go. People on the
ground needed our supplies, whatever we had, and we needed space aboard the
ship to cram it full of new stuff at Earth. Stuff we would probably have to
steal, assuming Earth was in complete societal collapse after we arrived.

Good
times.

Simms
had designated one area for food to sustain our crew, during the flight to
Backstop. It was a risk; if Backstop failed to open, our crew would be
surviving on sludges and homemade 
HooAH
! bars until
we could find something to eat.

She
brushed undisciplined bangs out of her eyes and tapped on her tablet when I
strode into the docking bay. “You want to speak with me, Sir?” She had a distinctive
I-am-very-busy look in her eye, urging me to not waste her time.

I
nodded, and gestured to a dwindling pile of crates and boxes along the inner
wall of the bay. Two dropships were steadily being loaded to the 
gills,
 I could see their landing struts compressed under the
weight. “That’s the last of it?”

She
shook her head. “We have two other docking bays working, plus there are odds
and ends here and there aboard the ship, in various nooks and crannies. I have
Skippy’s bots racking down the stragglers. Don’t worry, we will stick to the
schedule. The last ship will drop in,” she glanced at her tablet, “nine and a
half hours.”

“That’s
great,” I said, meaning the opposite. That last ship would carry her to the
surface, and I might never see her again. If I never had to eat another
vegetable surprise she cooked up in the galley, that would be great. But the
idea of never seeing her again hurt. Like, 
physically
. I got a pang in
my heart and my stomach cramped up. Way back on Paradise, Simms had signed on with
the Merry Band of Pirates, and made us legit. She had been by my side, with
varying levels of enthusiasm, ever since. “Are you interested in one last
rodeo?”

“What?”
Her eyebrows flew up, then her eyes narrowed with suspicion. My eyes
automatically darted to her wedding ring. “Sir, you said I had to stay here on
Avalon. You made a whole 
speech
 about it.”

“I
did,” I shrugged, embarrassed. “This is just a short recon flight. I hope it’s
short.”

“
Short
?
There is nothing around here.”

“That’s
kind of the point. There is a 
nothing
 here, and we need to check it out,
before we commit to this planet as humanity’s new home.”

I
swear, she actually put her hands on her hips and glared at me. “It’s a bit
late for that, Sir.”

“You
know what I’m talking about, right?”

“Maris?”
She rolled her eyes. Simms did not like the cutesy names we gave to planets,
especially when they were inside jokes.

“Yes.
Skippy thinks whatever is there, may be a threat.”

“It
hasn’t been a threat so far,” she reminded me.

“I
know.”

“Let
me guess. Skippy wants to poke it with a stick.”

“Not
exactly. He wants 
us
 to poke it with a stick.”

“Did
you tell him your name is not ‘Darryl’?”

“Yes,”
I laughed.

“Another
idiotic idea from Skippy. What could possibly go wrong?”

“Do
you want to find out?” I grinned.

“You
are going anyway, aren’t you?”

“Uh,
yeah, probably. I would appreciate having adult supervision.”

“What
if the adult tells you not to poke the hornet’s nest with a stick?”

“Can
we throw rocks at it instead?”

“I’m
going to pretend you didn’t say that, Sir. This is a simple recon mission?”

“Yes.
I promise. We match course and speed with Skippy’s best guess of where the
planet is, then jump in. Launch a couple probes to fly inside the stealth
field, collect the data, and come back here. Unless we determine that whatever
is hidden in there represents a threat to Avalon. I want to do this by the
book,” I assured her.

She
was not assured. “By the book? Does the Army have a manual on the proper
procedure for investigating planets inside a stealth field?”

“The
Army has a manual for 
everything
, Simms,” I joked, but it may not have
been a joke. When we returned to Earth from our long mission that involved
spending time in the Roach Motel, the Army had questioned why we hadn’t
investigated the hidden planet there. My answer was that Hans Chotek was the
mission leader, and he had ordered me to leave that planet alone. That answer
had not pleased Army leadership, or the leadership of UNEF. We failed to
exploit an opportunity at the Roach Motel, and someone other than Hans Chotek
had to take the blame. If the Army had standing orders to investigate hidden
planets, they hadn’t told me about it. Maybe they figured I would do it on my
own. “Will you come with us?”

She
knew I could have made my request an order. She also knew I wouldn’t do that to
her. “Tell me this, Sir. If we discover a threat at Maris, one that requires us
to pull everyone off Avalon, what is the plan? Where do we go?”

“I
haven’t got all the details worked out yet,” I admitted, which was my way of
saying I did not have a freakin clue.

“Mm
hmm,” She folded her arms across her chest. There was no other place to go, she
knew that. When we found Avalon, we had cut short our search. At the time, we
expected to fly back to Earth to report what we had found. Then UNEF could
decide whether to continue searching for a better site, or bring a larger
science team to examine Avalon in detail, or both. None of that had happened.

“How
about this?” I asked. “If we find a monster under the bed at Maris, we bring everyone
to Club Skippy. Temporarily, just until we find a place that is a safe haven in
the long term.”

“It
will have to be temporary,” the arms she had hugged tightly to her chest
relaxed slightly. “Club Skippy will have aliens crawling all over it, after the
next wormhole shift. That could happen sooner than Skippy expects, because he
has been screwing with the damned network.”

I
read between the lines of what she said. “We’re agreed, then?”

She
let out an exasperated breath. “I’ll go with you. Frank stays here.”

“Absolutely.
We’ll have you back 
ASAP,
 I promise.”

“Your
promise isn’t the problem, Sir. It’s the ‘possible’ part of A-S-A-P that
worries me.”

“Simms,
if this goes wrong, I am blaming your negative attitude.”

“I
appreciate the heads-up.”

 

“Um,
Joe?” Skippy prompted me when I got back to my office. “May I ask what changed
your mind about going to Maris? Nothing has changed about the facts, that I am
aware of.”

“The
facts have not changed.”

“Then
why did-”

“Let’s
just say that your little talk, about the narrowing probabilities against us,
got my attention. I want Maris to be one less variable we don’t know about.”

“Oh.
OK.”

There
was another reason, but I wasn’t going to mention that to him. If people were
going to think I’m stupid, I didn’t want to give them any more ammo against me.

 

 

It
took sixteen hours for 
Valkyrie
 to match course and speed with Maris, so
we would be stationary with that hidden planet when we jumped in. Not knowing
exactly where the damned thing was, we used Skippy’s best guess. The jump was
uneventful. No shearing field tore the ship in half, we did not get trapped in
a damping field, and a swarm of Guardians did not attack the ship. It might
have helped that Skippy broadcast his identity and authentication codes long
before we jumped, so the message had time to reach the hidden world. He repeated
the message as soon as we emerged from jump, and kept trying to get whoever was
inside the field to respond.

“Anything?”
I asked, watching the holographic display tank anxiously.

“No
joy, Joe,” he mumbled. “The stupid thing is not acknowledging me at all.”

“It’s
not shooting at us,” I pointed out. “That is a form of response.”

“Yeah,
I guess so,” he said with disgust.

“How
can we be sure that anyone’s home in there?” Simms asked.

“
Someone

must be there,” Skippy insisted. “The Elders would not have left a stealth
field and gravity-dispersal system to low-level systems. There must be a form
of higher intelligence in there, somewhere.”

“It
couldn’t be an AI like you,” I asked, a chill making the hair on the back of my
neck stand up. “Could it?”

“No
way,” Skippy chuckled at my stupid question. “The Elders would not dedicate an
AI like me to a simple job. We are too valuable. Even the Elders did not have
unlimited resources.”

“Good
enough. Do you have a better idea where the planet is?”

“Sort
of. It’s off-center as I suspected. There is no point to creating a
gravity-dispersal field, if the planet is in the exact center of it.
Coordinates are programmed in the probe drone guidance system.”

“Launch
one,” I ordered, and the display showed a single symbol accelerating gently
away from the ship. We did not want the entity at Maris to think we were
hostile.

 

The
probe drone did not get blown up as it approached the stealth field. There was
no reaction at all. It was moving at half a kilometer per second when it
contacted the fuzzy edge of the field and disappeared. The probe was supposed
to wait ten minutes then use its autonomous guidance system and boost itself
back outside the field. Ten minutes passed, then twelve. It should have been
visible again, or we should at least have detected the ping it was sending out.

Fifteen
minutes.

Twenty.

“Shit,”
I looked to Simms. “This was a bust.”

“Bust-o-
rama
, Joe,” Skippy agreed. “
Busta

Rhymes. Bust-”

“What
do you think?” I addressed the question to both Skippy and Simms. “Try another
probe? Maybe two, this time?”

“Sir,”
Simms answered. “You want to do the same thing again, and expect different
results?”

“I
don’t know what else to do,” I admitted. “We came all the way out here. I want
an answer.”

“That
could 
be
 the answer,” she jabbed a finger at the display. “It just said
‘Go Away’.”

“Or
the probe failed,” I retorted. “It could be as simple as selecting a different
location. Try again, but send the next probe in from one end of the dispersal
field?”

“It’s
worth a shot,” Skippy agreed. “We could- Oh, ho! There it is!”

A
symbol for the probe was blinking on the display.

“Uh!”
Skippy preemptively shushed me. “Give me a moment to talk with the stupid
thing. OK, hmm, interesting.”

“What
happened?”

“The
short answer is, it doesn’t know. The probe thought it 
was
 following
instructions, but it must have gotten lost. It departed the stealth field eight
thousand kilometers from where it was supposed to be.”

“Uh,
how could that happen? It was only gone twenty minutes, and it wasn’t moving
that fast.”

“Good
question, Joe. A question for which I do not presently have an answer.”

He
was using fancy words, because he was nervous. In the military, I had learned
that ‘I do not know’ is a legit response, although less legit if the subject is
something basic like ‘Where is your rifle?’. Being honest about your ignorance
is preferable to faking it and causing people to rely on your dumb ass. “
Will

you have an answer?”

“Um,
no.”

“Can
you expand on that?”

“The
probe recorded 
no
 useful data, Joe. It was totally blind in there.
That’s how it got lost.”

“Even
if it had no external references, its guidance system is self-contained over
such a short distance. How could it get lost?”

“That’s
the problem. As far as it is concerned, it did 
not
 get lost. The probe
assumed the stealth field had expanded. It kept going, expecting to break out
of the field eventually. It has no idea how it traveled so far.”

“Great.
Do you have a theory about what happened?”

“Not
without more data, no.”

 

We
launched more probes. Twenty-six probes in total. They all got lost, and
twenty-three of them reappeared way off course. Three were never heard from
again, and we didn’t know why. Gradually, Skippy was able to piece together a
picture of what was going on inside the stealth field. Manipulation of the
gravity well had strange effects that created sort of gravity currents inside
the field. Probes would get caught in a current that acted like the Jet Stream
in Earth’s atmosphere, so the probe would be carried along at great speed until
it flew out of the current. The guidance systems of the probes did not expect
that the space around them would be moving, that is why they thought they were
exactly on course.

The
probes provided almost no useful data. Despite the lack of info, there was good
news. The entity inside the stealth field had not reacted in a hostile manner.
It had not reacted at all, which might have been considered bad news, but I was
counting it as a win. If Maris did not react to us flying probes inside the
field, it might not care about lowly 
meatsacks
 living
on Avalon.

The
other bit of good news was that Skippy thought he was able to map the gravity
currents, and determine where the planet was.

The
next step, part of the plan I approved before we left Avalon, was to launch
probes that carried one end of a microwormhole. To prevent the effects of the
gravity dispersal field from bleeding through a microwormhole and causing havoc
aboard the ship, we launched the other end of that microwormhole in a second
probe, then one end of another microwormhole inside a 
third
 probe. With
the second and third probes hovering only a few kilometers from each other, the
communication channel between the ship and the first probe was nearly
instantaneous. We waited for the second and third probes to coast away to six
thousand kilometers from the ship, before ordering the first probe to fire its
thrusters and enter the stealth field. That probe was right above where Skippy
thought the hidden planet was, he was hopeful we could finally get some solid
data.

The
probe slipped into the stealth field, and the view changed from black space
dotted with stars, to utter nothingness. “Skippy, can you see anything in
there?”

“Not
yet. Hmm, interesting. The entire electromagnetic spectrum is blank. Well, not
blank exactly. The data I’m receiving is nonsense. This is an excellent stealth
field.”

“You
should see something as the probe gets closer to the planet, though, right?”

“Mm,
shmaybe, but I wouldn’t count on it. I’m picking up spatial distortion effects,
it’s difficult to tell where the probe is in relation to the planet.”

“Don’t
count on it?” I shared a look with Simms. “Then why the hell did we send in the
freakin’ probe?”

“Um,
because we 
might
 see something, and right now we have zero data to work
with. Mostly, because I expect the entity in that field to react to the
microwormhole.”

“What
the f- Are you 
kidding
 me?” Beside me, Simms slapped her forehead. “Pull
that damned probe out of there right now, you idiot!”

“Jeez,
Joe, don’t be such a fraidy cat,” he verbally rolled his eyes at me. “The probe
is already there, we might as well-”

The
ship shuddered.

“What
the hell was-” I shouted, then my stomach did flip-flops as the artificial
gravity field flickered.

“Not

this
 shit again!” Simms screamed, more in anger than fear.

“Skippy!
What is going on?” I demanded.

“I
don’t know! I don’t know 
why
. Oh, 
shit
! The ship is being pulled
down toward the planet.”

“Pilot!
Jump option-”

“No,
Joe! Jump drive is offline,” Skippy warned, at the same time the pilot made a
slashing motion with his hand and pointed to the jump status indicator. It was
red.

We
couldn’t jump.

Fine.

“Fireball,
get us out of here, pedal to the metal.”

“Sir,”
Reed said without looking over at me. “Thrust is on full. We’re not 
going

anywhere!”

Before
I could ask the obvious question, Skippy spoke. “Engines are operating
nominally, at full power. They’re just not 
pushing
 against anything.”

“Why?
How is-”

“The
laws of physics aren’t working here!” He screeched. “We’re just going to burn out
the engines, without accomplishing anything.”

I
made a snap decision. “
Pilot,
 cut power. Are the
thrusters working?”

“The
main thrusters, no,” Reed shook her head. “Backup thrusters are having a small
effect. It’s no good, Sir. Not enough to counteract the, tractor beam or
whatever we’re caught in.”

On
the display, the imaginary line that represented the outer edge of the stealth
field was approaching rapidly. No. We were rapidly being pulled toward it. “Skippy,
this is a tractor beam? Can we target the source and take it out?”

“No.
It’s not a tractor beam, we are caught in a 
gravitic

current. The dispersal field suddenly expanded to pull us in. We’re being
pulled along with it!”

“There’s
nothing we can 
do?
 You can do?”

“No.
I don’t even understand how the damned thing works!” he sobbed.

“
All right,
 fuck it. We’re 
outta

here. Abandon ship. 
Everyone,
 get to a dropship,” I
ordered. Everyone except me, but I didn’t say that. I was staying aboard,
literally going down with the ship. Until the very last moment, as long as
there was any hope at all, I would-

“Not
possible, Joe,” Skippy moaned. “Dropships can launch, but they’ll be pulled down
along with the ship. Same with escape pods.”

What
the hell could we do?

Nothing.

We
couldn’t do anything.

“Skippy,

do
 something.”

“I’m
trying, Joe. No, that’s not right. I am actually not doing 
anything
,
because I don’t know what to do. Tell me what to do!”

 

What
to do? What 
could
 we do? The ship couldn’t jump. Couldn’t move at all.
Couldn’t shoot, because we didn’t have a target. 
Valkyrie’s
 mighty guns
wouldn’t do much against an entire planet anyway. The crew couldn’t even get
away.

The

crew
 couldn’t get away.

But
maybe someone could.

“What
about railguns?” I asked, speaking as the idea formed in my head.

“Railguns?”
Simms stared at me. “We don’t have a target to shoot at.”

“Joe,”
Skippy chimed in. “The recoil action of a railgun is not enough to counteract-”

“It
won’t save the ship, but we could load you into the railgun, and shoot you at
Avalon. You will crash-land there eventually.”

“Shit,
J-Joe.” He stammered. “That won’t work. The 
gravitic

current would throw off the aim of the railgun. We don’t have time 
anyway,
 we are about to- 
Oop
!”

The
ship plunged inside the stealth field.

It
was completely 
black,
 all sensors were blanked out.

“Skippy,
what do you see in here?”

“Just
magnetic and gravity fields, Joe,” he mumbled, a sign that he was concentrating
on something. “Give me a minute.”

“We
don’t have a minute.”

“We
have nothing 
but
 time,” he retorted, and his avatar froze. It didn’t
blink out, it didn’t fade, it just froze as one image because he wasn’t paying
any attention to it. “As best I can tell,” he said as his avatar reanimated,
“we are being pulled toward the planet. As I predicted, it is a gas giant,
between the sizes of Saturn and Neptune. We will contact the upper atmosphere
in two minutes. The good news is, our forward progress is slowing with the
current. The ship should survive initial contact with the atmosphere. However,
the strength of the 
gravitic
 field has increased.
Even if our engines had something to push against, we couldn’t get away.”

“What
next? Why is it pulling us in? Does it want to talk with us, scan us?”

“Neither
of those. It is not responding to me at all, and I am not detecting any active
sensors being used. My guess is, it plans to pull the ship down to the core of
the planet.”

“The

core
?” Astronomy, like any science you could name, was not my specialty.
I did know, from reading Wikipedia articles, that the core of a gas giant planet
was typically a solid ball composed of nickel and iron, at the center of a
super-dense atmosphere. “It wants to meet us there?”

“No.
Assuming the ship goes all the way to the core, there will be no one left
alive. The pressure at that depth is enough to create metallic hydrogen.”

“OK,
OK,” I thought frantically. “Can you do that trick of expanding the shields, to
make the ship buoyant, keep us from falling too deep?”

“No,”
he shook his head slowly. “The shields have failed. Their generators are pumping
out gigawatts of power, but the fields are looping back on themselves. I
recommend cutting power, before the generators burn out.”

Beside
me, Simms gestured to a crewman, who tapped on his console to give the
appropriate commands. Just then, the ship shuddered again, and there was a
roaring sound.

“We
are now in the atmosphere,” Skippy announced glumly, and the ship rotated
sickeningly. On the display, we could see the hull wobbling until it stabilized
nose-down, pointed straight down at the hellish core of the planet. “Armor
plating is holding,” he reported.

“For
how long?” I asked the question, not really wanting to hear the answer.

“The
armor has excellent thermal-protection properties. Heat is not the problem,
Joe. The pressure section of the hull is designed to hold 
in
 one
atmosphere of air. If we continue at this rate, we will fall to crush depth in
ten minutes, forty-three seconds.”

It
was my fault.

Yes,
Skippy had used the microwormhole to provoke a reaction from the entity, and he
failed to tell anyone the true purpose of sending that probe inside the stealth
field.

That
was 
my
 fault. I knew what an irresponsible, absent-minded, untrustworthy
little shithead he is, yet I hadn’t asked enough questions. “There is nothing
you can do?”

“No.
Not that I know of. I have 
tried
 everything I can think of. Joe, for all
my powers, I wasn’t designed for this situation. The Elders wanted this place
protected, even from AIs like me. I am sorry.”

The
ship was vibrating so hard, it was shaking my teeth loose. My brain couldn’t
concentrate. It didn’t matter. No clever idea was getting us out of there.
“Skippy, get yourself out of here.”

“What?”
Skippy and Simms said at the same time.

Ignoring
Simms, who I could see glaring at me, I explained “Do your disappearing trick
again. 
You
 have to survive.”

“No,
Joe.”

“Someone
has to survive. You are the only one of us with a prayer of escaping before the
ship is crushed. As long as you survive, humanity has hope.”

“It
doesn’t work like that,” he shook his head in despair.

“Disappear?

Again
?” Simms demanded my attention. “What ‘
again
’ is that, Sir?”

Shit.
It no longer mattered if everyone knew the truth. “When I got captured, and the
microwormholes at Rikers collapsed, it wasn’t because Skippy got scared of a
computer worm attack. He 
bailed
 on us. After he recovered his memories,
he decided that helping a lowly bunch of monkeys was a waste of his talents, so
he left to contact the Rindhalu. He left,” I looked at Simms. “Poof,” I made an
exploding gesture with my hands. “His can disappeared. Physically.”

Simms
gaped at me, then at Skippy. “He can 
do
 that?”

“Apparently,
yes.”

“I’m
not 
supposed
 to do that,” Skippy mumbled. 

Simms
clenched her jaw. “Damn straight you’re not supposed to 
bail
 on us.”

“Simms,”
I held up a hand.

She
was not deterred. “When were you going to tell us the truth? Why?” She was
angry at me, and 
hurt
.

“I
didn’t want everyone to be distracted. He came 
back
, that’s what
matters.”

“You

trusted
 him, after that stunt?”

“Simms,
it’s not like we had a choice,” I shrugged.

“You
had a choice whether to tell us the truth. Whether to trust 
us
.”

“I
know that. I made a judgment call.”

“Lately,
your judgment has 
sucked
.”

“That
is enough, 
Lieutenant
 Colonel.” Turning away from her anger, I focused on
Skippy. And on the indicator showing the ship would reach crush depth in seven
minutes. “Skippy, get yourself out of here. That’s an order. Do it now.”

“Joe,”
he sighed. He was sobbing. “If I do this, I might not be able to interact with
this layer of spacetime ever again.”

“You
will be alive.”

“I
am not in danger of 
dying
, Joe. Not even the pressure and temperature at
the core of this world can kill me.”

“It
won’t kill 
you,
 it will do worse. Getting stuck at the
core of this planet will make you 
useless
. Alone forever, until the end
of time. Please, 
go
. Promise me you will do whatever you can, if you
can, to help us. Our people.”

“I
don’t like this,” his words were barely audible over the roaring and vibration
as the ship fell headlong toward the crushing depths.

“I
don’t like it either.”

“Goodbye,
Joe. Jennifer. Everyone,” his avatar was already fading.

Not
trusting myself to speak, I gave him a shaky thumbs up.

With
the corner of one eye, I saw Simms looking at me.

Her
hurt and anger were gone, replaced by another emotion.

Disappointment.

She
trusted me.

And
I had gotten everyone killed.

Everyone
.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTY TWO

 

“Yes,
Admiral Denoth,” Illiath acknowledged, and issued instructions for her ship to
maneuver from the rear of the formation. Following standing orders, she had
resisted the temptation to take her ship to Earth alone. Instead, the 
Vortan

had flown through four wormholes, to the nearest major fleet base, to report
her discovery: she had found a shortcut to Earth. If luck had been with her, the
battlegroup based there would have been away searching for the ghost ship, or
at least on maneuvers. But the 
Vortan
 had emerged from jump to find the
base servicing facilities packed with ships. There was a brief moment of hope
when sensors found many ships undergoing heavy maintenance, their engines worn
out from chasing after every report of an appearance by the ghost ship. Surely,
the admiral in command would dismiss Illiath, and she could proceed back to the
new wormhole? By then, it should be safe for a ship to go through.

No
such luck. The admiral was one of those opposed to sending a reinforced
battlegroup on the long voyage to Earth’s nearest wormhole, considering the
mission to be a useless diversion of resources. He was eager to prove there was
nothing important to be gained from examining the odd behavior of that
wormhole, and so announced he would be going with Illiath. Or, Illiath would be
going with him. Her lightly-armed patrol cruiser was assigned a
less-than-desirable position on the racks of a star carrier, joining the
admiral’s battlecruiser, three heavy cruisers and two destroyer squadrons.

Now,
with the wormhole still only intermittently stable, she had the dubious honor
of flying through first, while the battlegroup waited a safe distance away.

The
timing would be tricky, with little margin for error during the approach.
Confidence was reported at only eighty-nine percent, a 
number

below normal safety procedures. As the situation was anything but normal, and
the admiral itching to resolve the minor mystery and return to base, he had
ordered Illiath to proceed. If her ship were damaged or destroyed during the
transition, he promised that she would not be held responsible for hazarding
her ship.

That
was of little comfort to the crew of the 
Vortan
.

Regardless,
their ship performed flawlessly, jumping in exactly on time, moving at a speed
and direction that would have the warship coast safely past the event horizon,
unless the engines were fired to curve its path for the transition.

The
engines fired precisely on time, and the cruiser plunged through for a
transition notable for inducing nausea in every single member of the crew.

At
the next opportunity, Illiath guided her ship back through to report the
wormhole was safe, and Admiral Denoth ordered his ships through, one at a time.

When
the last ship, the precious star carrier, was through, Denoth considered his
options. Go to Earth? No. Nothing of importance could be there. His mission was
to examine the odd behavior of the wormhole closest to the homeworld of the
humans, and he intended to prove that, too, was nothing of importance.

What
he really wanted was to leave automated buoys scattered around that wormhole.
When the reinforced battlegroup finally reached those coordinates, after the long,
long flight, they would hear a message from Denoth, stating that he had already
been there. And that, thanks to him, their flight home would be relatively
quick.

The

Vortan
 was last to dock with the star carrier, and it jumped away.

 

 

 

The
event horizon in front of the 
Flying Dutchman
 flickered, glowed solidly
for a brief moment, then blinked out in a bright flare.

“How
long was it open that time?” Chang asked.

“One
point two three seconds,” Nagatha reported.

“It
was 
stable
 for that long?” He wanted her to confirm. “We could have gone
through?”

“Theoretically,
yes. Colonel Chang, I must warn, that would be 
extremely
 tricky timing.”

“Can
we do it? Can you predict the next time it will be stable?” As the Backstop
wormhole established its anchor in local spacetime, it blinked on and off in a
pattern that was not quite random, but not regular enough to be reliable.
Nagatha had been able to detect ahead of time when the event horizon would
appear next, based on distortion effects that appeared, beginning seven minutes
before the actual rip flooded the area with gamma radiation. If the pattern
continued, the next brief emergence would happen within the next eighty
minutes. The problem was, it could happen at any time during that period.

“My
best estimate is that the effects will be detectable again within forty-three
minutes. But of course, I could be off by eighteen minutes early or late.”

“That

is
 tricky timing. Once you detect the distortion, how accurate can you
be on predicting the window of stability?”

“I
wish you had not asked me that. If you plan to send the ship through, we will
have a window of only thirty-four thousandths of a second to transition
through.”

“Just
over three-hundredths of a second, then,” he considered. “What do you think?”
He addressed the question to the pilots.

“Sir,
give us a minute to work the math?” Ray asked, and the two leaned toward each
other, speaking in low voices.

“Colonel
Chang,” Nagatha said. “Plotting a course is relatively simple, I can-”

“Nagatha,
I know you can crunch the numbers, but the 
pilots
 need to fly the ship.
They need to tell me if it is possible or not.”

“Forgive
me, I did not consider that. Would it be acceptable if I were to verify the 
flightplan
?”

“Please
do that,” Ray said, looking back at Chang. “Sir, we’d like to conduct several 
practice
 runs, aiming for a point in space to simulate
hitting the event horizon at exactly the right time.”

“Whatever
you think is best,” Chang said. “
I 
won’t be flying the ship.”

 

Three
practice runs gave the pilots confidence they could fly the ship through the
temporarily-stable event horizon. Technically, the last two practice runs gave
them confidence, the first run would have been a disaster if it were a real
flight. Chang called a stand-down for everyone to check equipment, get a hot
meal, and rest. “Is your team ready?” He asked Smythe.

“They
will be. Sir, are you sure we should not wait for 
Valkyrie
?”

Chang
shook his head. “They are overdue by four 
days
. We don’t know why, but
it can’t be good news. We can’t wait.”

“We
could fly to the Broomstick wormhole,” Smythe suggested. “If it is open, we can
go through there.”

“Flight
time to Broomstick is two days, nineteen hours,” Chang recited from memory.
“That is too long. If it is stable, we have to assume aliens have gone through.
It has been flashing like a strobe light, and it is close to an active
wormhole. No. We go through 
here
, prepared for a fight.”

“Against
aliens, or our own people?”

“Both,
if necessary.”

“Very
well,” Smythe declared, clearly relieved. He had not wanted to waste time by
flying to another wormhole. “My team will be suited up and ready.”

“I
know. I hope you won’t be needed.”

“You
don’t have a STAR team aboard in case things go 
well
, Sir.”

 

Five
heavily-shielded missiles were sent through the still-flickering Backstop
wormhole, with four successfully hitting the event horizon with the exact
timing needed to transition through before the wormhole briefly shut down
again. It was impossible to know how many survived the trip to broadcast the 
Dutchman’s

authentications codes. Chang had not wanted to expend five missiles, though
they were of a type designed for orbital bombardment, he was convinced of the
need to avoid flying into a minefield.

“Pilot,”
he tugged the strap tighter across his lap. “Take us through.”

The

Flying Dutchman
 jumped with a precision that Nagatha could not have
accomplished with the ship’s original Thuranin drive system, emerging at the
minimum safe distance from the event horizon that was not yet stable. Only a
few puffs of thrusters were needed to adjust the course, and the ship raced
toward its date with destiny. Chang held his breath as the event horizon
flickered, the unnatural blue light pulsing brightly then dimming. At the last
second, the engines fired at half thrust, curving the ship’s flight path to
plunge into the event horizon of the Backstop wormhole just before it flickered
out again.

The
transition was actually not the worst the crew had experienced, though no other
ship in the galaxy was able to claim that distinction, because only the Merry
Band of Pirates had ever 
broken
 an Elder wormhole. Swallowing hard to
fight the rising nausea, Chang refrained from issuing unhelpful orders, as the
ship and crew recovered from the distortion effects of seemingly-instantaneous
transition from 
there
 to 
here
.

“Colonel
Chang,” Nagatha called as the crew heard a dull, distant 
thump
 sound.
“We just struck a nuclear device. No damage, the shields were able to deflect
it before it struck the forward sensor dome. It appears that the device was a dud,
or disarmed.”

“Let’s
not take any chances. Pilot, jump option Charlie, engage when-”

“We
are being hailed by a UNEF ship!” Nagatha announced.

“Belay
that,” Chang waited for the pilots to acknowledge, then, “Which ship?”

“It
is the 
Yu Qishan
. An Admiral Patel insists on speaking to you directly.”

The
main display was populating with data, as the ship’s sensors reset. Less than a
hundred thousand kilometers away was the former Kristang troop carrier
starship, named for a Chinese sergeant who had given his life to prevent a lizard
from blowing up the very first ship captured by the Merry Band of Pirates.
Chang had been there, an event that seemed like both only yesterday, and
impossibly long ago.

“Nagatha,
we don’t have time for a long argument about who has authority here,” Chang had
no intention of surrendering control of his ship to an admiral who was clueless
about the situation. “Ransack the 
Qishan’s
 
databanks,
please. Let me know if there is anything we need to know.”

“Hmm,”
she did not like being put in a position where she had to guess what the human
crew would consider important. “There is considerable tension and anxiety on
Earth, due to us being overdue to return. So far, the tensions have not spilled
over into actual conflict between the nations of UNEF. The 
Qishan
 was
sent out here when the gamma rays of the Backstop wormhole were detected on
Earth. They do suspect it is a previously-unknown Elder wormhole, but they do
not suspect Skippy is involved.”

“No
indication that alien ships have been detected?” He was not concerned only
about Maxolhx ships coming through the Broomstick wormhole. There was also a
Bosphuraq cruiser unaccounted for on the Earth side of the Gateway wormhole,
and the possibility of another surprise by the Kristang.

“No,
Colonel. Admiral Patel is being very insistent on speaking with you, or
actually to Bishop. He is demanding to know where we have been.”

“Signal
the 
Qishan
 to return to Earth as soon as possible, we will explain the
situation when they arrive. Um, inform Patel that we are concerned there might
be Maxolhx warships arriving soon.”

“Done.”

“Excellent.

Pilot,
 jump option Sierra, that is 
Sierra
,” he
emphasized. “Engage when ready.”

Seconds
later, the 
Flying Dutchman
 disappeared in a burst of gamma radiation.

 

And
appeared above the far side of Saturn. While waiting for the sensors to reset,
Chang contemplated the fuzzy but clearing view of the ringed planet. “It is
odd. We have flown halfway across the galaxy, but we have never been 
here
.
I have always wanted to see Saturn.” He sighed as the display became crystal
clear, the spectacular rings backlit by light from the local star. From the
Sun, 
the
 Sun.

Carried
by its momentum, the 
Dutchman
 arced around the planet, the stealth field
wrapping around the ship before it was in line-of-sight to Earth. Chang quietly
admired the view, while the ship’s sensors passively collected information from
humanity’s homeworld. The data would only be seventy minutes old. He hoped he
was being overly cautious, that there was no need for his ship to conduct a
stealthy recon before proceeding to humanity’s home planet. He wasn’t paid to
be hopeful.

“Colonel
Chang,” Nagatha made a sound like clearing her voice. “I have located the 
Ice-Cold
Dagger to the Heart, 
that ship is in low orbit. It is still under UNEF
control. Only one of the reactors is active, I do not yet know why the- Oh. Oh,
my.”

“What
is it?”

“Please
give me a minute to verify this sensor data. It is extremely faint.”

While
they waited, Chang contacted Smythe, waiting with his team in dropships.
“Smythe, standby. The 
Dagger
 doesn’t appear to be compromised or
hostile. I want to avoid antagonizing the authorities dirtside. Taking the 
Dagger

by force would be premature.”

“It
would be crossing the Rubicon,” Smythe agreed. “I haven’t seen any data on the
status of,” he lowered his voice though he had his helmet sealed. “Families of
the crew.”

“We
are working on it,” Chang looked through the glass into the CIC. The crew there
were monitoring sensors, not relying entirely on Nagatha to do the work for
them. “Soon as we have-”

 
“Oh, Colonel Chang,” Nagatha’s voice
shuddered. “I am afraid that I have horrible news to report. The sensor data is

extremely
 faint, I have to rely on the residual effect on particles of
the local solar wind.”

“What
effect?”

She
did not answer immediately, instead making a sound like she was taking a deep
breath before delivering the bad news. “The effect of an alien jump drive, less
than four light-minutes from Earth. Colonel, the signature is unmistakably from
multiple Maxolhx ships.” She paused again. “They are here.”

 

Someone
was talking to him, Chang had to shake his head to focus. “One moment, Smythe,”
he said with a calm that was more from shock than professionalism. “Nagatha,
please clarify. What sensor data are you using, and what is your level of
confidence?’

“Pardon
me, Colonel. I should have provided that information. As you know, Maxolhx
ships can focus the gamma rays from their inbound jump, so those photons are
difficult to detect unless the beam is focused in our direction. However,
another effect of concentrating those gamma rays is the beam creates a trail of
ionized particles, when it passes through the solar wind. This ionization is
faint but distinctive. Only Maxolhx or Rindhalu ships are known to have the
ability to focus their gamma ray emissions. Based on unique characteristics of
the ionization, I can state with ninety-three percent confidence that these
trails were created by Maxolhx ships. Specifically, one 
Vengeance
-class
battlecruiser, three heavy cruisers, and ten to twelve other ships that are
either light cruisers or destroyers.”

“Thank
you,” Chang had asked for the information, partly to give himself time to
process the shock of enemy ships being in humanity’s home star system. “Another
question, please,” he felt like he was hearing someone else speak. The voice he
heard was unnaturally calm. “Can you estimate how long ago those ships jumped
in?”

“Yes.
Based on how degraded the ionization effect is, I can confidently state the
jumps occurred eleven hours, eighteen minutes ago, with a seven-minute margin
of error.”

“Very
well. Colonel Smythe, you heard all that?”

“Yes,
Sir,” the STAR team leader acknowledged. “The Maxolhx have been here for over
eleven hours.”

“Yes.
I do not understand why they did not ambush us at Backstop?” Chang pondered the
question. “They must see there is a new wormhole, just outside the solar
system.”

“The
Maxolhx could have been there before we arrived,” Nagatha said. “The particle
density out there is orders of magnitude less than it is near Earth, an
ionization trail would have been very difficult to detect, in the time
available before we jumped. I must admit,” she added with a catch in her voice.
“I was not looking for signs of enemy ships. My focus was on the 
Yu
 
Qishan
.
That was my fault.”

“Nagatha,
you did what I asked you to do. Any fault is mine. The Maxolhx must see the new
wormhole, we must assume they investigated it. They would have seen the 
Qishan
,
and that it is controlled by humans. Yet, they did not seize that ship. That
is, interesting.”

“Sir,”
Smythe interrupted Chang’s thoughts. “The Maxolhx arrived near Earth eleven
hours ago. What are they 
doing
?”

“My
guess is, observing. Trying to make sense of the data they are collecting. They
must be in shock,” he realized the truth of that statement as he said the
words. The enemy is also in shock. “They see the Kristang are not in charge of
Earth, that there are no Kristang on Earth. A Kristang troop carrier is in
orbit, under 
human
 control.”

“That
is not all,” Nagatha rejoined the conversation. “It is unlikely that sensors on
Earth, or aboard the 
Dagger
, have detected the enemy. By now, the
Maxolhx have almost certainly learned about Skippy. UNEF communication security
is excellent by human standards, but the secret of Skippy’s existence has
almost fully unraveled during the time we were gone. Governments have not
officially acknowledged the truth, but speculation very close to the truth is
widely posted on social media.”

“They
are trying to decide what to do,” Chang concluded. “The Maxolhx, I mean. They
most likely saw the 
Qishan
 is controlled by humans, and they did not
interfere. Instead, they went to Earth, to gather more information. I think the
enemy fleet is led by a very cautious commander,” he explained. “Coming here
through a new wormhole, they found something completely unexpected. They have
learned that humanity is being aided by an Elder AI, 
and
 that Elder AI is
not here. That the people on Earth do not know where the AI is.”

“They
want to capture Skippy,” Smythe said.

“Yes.”
Chang agreed. “That should be their first priority.”

“They
won’t delay much longer,” Smythe warned. “They must suspect that 
someone

on Earth knows where Skippy is. Threatening to bombard the planet would be
their next step. They may already have done that, the data we are seeing is
seventy minutes old.”

“We
have one ship, against more than a dozen of the enemy. Recommendations?”

“We
can’t win a straight-up fight,” Smythe stated the obvious. “Sir,” he took a
breath. “We could conduct a strategic retreat,” he used a nice term for running
away. “Take the ship to Paradise, bring aboard as many humans as we can carry.”

“We
could do that,” Chang considered. “To what end? Unless we can find 
Valkyrie
,
we have no way to open the wormhole to the Beta site. We can’t even get to Club
Skippy.”

“It
is not a good option,” Smythe admitted. “Sir, I don’t see that we 
have

any good options.”

“No.
We don’t. 
Valkyrie
 is not here. Bishop would be here if he could. We
must assume 
Valkyrie
 is disabled or destroyed. Whatever we do, we do it
alone. Smythe, this is the end of all things.” He looked at the pilots, at the
people in the CIC who were staring at him, waiting for him to make a decision.
Waiting for him to lead them. “We have been hoping to avoid this fight. Earth
is defenseless.” He looked into the CIC. “The Merry Band of Pirates will not
run away. We fight.”

The
faces staring back at him reflected fear, shock, horror, and something else.
There was an indominable determination.

“Let’s
give the enemy a bloody nose, hmm?”

A
ragged cheer rang around the CIC, and the crew saluted him. He returned the
gesture. “Smythe? Do you have any objections?”

“No,
Sir. I would have objected if we 
did
 run away. We are ready.”

“Nagatha,
plot a jump to take us into Earth orbit.”

“Yes,
Colonel Chang,” the ship’s AI replied. “Please remember, we do not know exactly
where the enemy is.”

“We
don’t have to.” Chang pressed the buttons to authorize the ship’s weapons. “I
am sure they will come to us.”

 

The

Flying Dutchman
 jumped in, fifty thousand kilometers from humanity’s
homeworld. If some of the crew diverted their attention to catch a glimpse of
the beautiful blue and white marble floating behind them, that was
understandable. They had not seen that world in too long a time. For the
Commandos from Paradise, they had not seen their original homeworld in many
years.

“Nagatha,”
Chang did not take his eyes off the tactical plot, which was filling in as the
ship’s sensors reset. “Transmit our UNEF authentication codes, and advise the 
Dagger

to perform a maximum-distance jump as soon as possible. The 
Dagger 
should
wait,” for what, he asked himself? “For the outcome of the coming battle to be
evident, or, for a recall signal.” He did not envy the captain and crew of that
captured Kristang troop carrier. The Maxolhx would surely track down and
destroy that ship. “Explain that we expect an overwhelming enemy force to
arrive at any moment. Send the same to UNEF Command.”

“Yes,
Colonel. I have scanned the 
Dagger
; their jump drive is currently
offline. I fear that by the time their drive coils are energized, the battle
will be over. UNEF Command is calling, demanding to speak with you.”

“Tell
them I am busy. They will understand soon enough.”

The
tactical plot filled in with details, showing the 
Ice-cold
 
Dagger to
the Heart
, surrounded by dropships and what appeared to be maintenance
equipment. Satellites orbiting the Earth both high and low. Satellites around
the Moon, none of which mattered.

What
the tactical display did not show was the location of the enemy. He considered
sending out an active sensor pulse. That would be seen as a challenge by the
enemy.

Good.

“Nagatha,
perform an active sensor scan, directed at your best guess of where the enemy
fleet is located.”

 

Aboard
his flagship, the 
Vengeance
-class battlecruiser 
Arvoxita
,

Admiral Denoth watched with astonishment as his own sensor data was updated
with incoming photons. A ship had just jumped in near the planet, and exchanged
messages using a human encryption scheme. This ship, too, was controlled by
humans. The primitive species somehow had at least three starships! But while
the other two ships were crude Kristang troop carriers, the new ship was
entirely different. The forward hull had the base configuration of a Thuranin
star carrier, but highly modified. Modified using components from 
Maxolhx

warships, as was the entire aft engineering section.

To
say he was astonished by this latest development was not accurate. Since
Commander Illiath had reported the existence of a previously-unknown Elder
wormhole, he had seen so many unexpected, so many impossible things, that he
felt numb, unable to experience a full sense of astonishment. 

Numbness
did not prevent him from feeling rage, or from exercising command. “How did the
humans capture drive systems from one of our ships?” he sent the thought blast
over the command channel, and saw his bridge crew wince as their implants
bombarded their brains with 
Denoth’s
 outrage.
“Analysis!”

“Admiral,”
The ship’s AI replied. “The components are from a mixture of ships from
multiple species. The primary motivators are distinctly from an 
Extinction
-class
battlecruiser.”

“Enemy
capability?”

“The
enemy ship, which is apparently named after a human mythical being, might
prevail in a fight with one of our destroyers. Against this ship,” the AI said
with a touch of pride that was dangerously close to an emotion that the Maxolhx
did not allow their computers to possess. “The enemy ship is defenseless.”

“Jump
on my signal, Attack Formation Three. We will board and capture that ship.”

“All
ships report readiness.”

“Jump.”

 

Chang
instinctively flinched as multiple gamma ray bursts appeared in front of the 
Flying
Dutchman
, the enemy not making any attempt to conceal their arrival. Nor
were the enemy ships wrapped in stealth fields. They wanted him to see them and
be intimidated.

It’s
working, he thought, and kept that thought to himself.

“Message
coming in from the enemy commander,” Nagatha reported. “They are demanding we
surrender and prepare to be boarded.”

In
response, he flipped up the cover that protected the self-destruct mechanism,
then replaced the cover. “Can they disable our self-destruct nukes?”

“At
short range, that is a possibility,” the ship’s AI admitted. “I will warn you
if my internal communications are being disrupted.”

“I
will respond, audio and video,” he decided. Let the enemy see him. They would
think humans are primitive and weak. “This is Colonel Chang Kong of the United
Nations starship 
Flying Dutchman
. To the enemy commander: you will stand
down and surrender your ships.”

“
FOOL
!”
the sound blasted around the bridge before Nagatha damped down the volume. “You
dare to threaten
 us
?”

“I
am the dread pirate Roberts,” Chang said as people in the CIC stared wide-eyed
at him. “There will be no survivors.” He was surprised at himself. Why had he
used an obscure pop-culture reference that the enemy, and most of the 
Dutchman’s

crew, would not understand?

The
answer was easy: that is what Bishop would do.

Maybe
he should have had T-shirts printed with ‘WWBD?’. What Would Bishop Do?

No.

That
only worked for Bishop.

The

Dutchman
 shuddered, and Nagatha reported “Colonel, the ship is unable to
move, the enemy ships are projecting a field that renders our normal-space
engines inoperative.”

“We
weren’t going anywhere,” Chang muttered.

WWBD.

What

would
 Bishop do in this situation?

Grossly
outgunned and unable to move.

Out
of options.

In
a flash, Chang knew what Bishop would do, and he wholeheartedly agreed. He
could not allow the 
Dutchman
 to be captured, for then the enemy would
learn about 
Valkyrie
. Unless he knew for certain the other ship had been
destroyed, he held hope, and that ship was the only hope for humanity. The 
Flying
Dutchman’s
 days as a pirate ship were over. At the end of all things, when
there was nothing else that could be done, the only possible move was a
breathtakingly futile and stupid act of defiance.

“Nagatha,
we are surrounded by a damping field?”

“Yes.
Only three enemy ships are projecting damping fields, however, at this range,
it is quite effective.”

“We
can’t jump, but I wonder if we can do something else. There have been times
when the ship did what Skippy described as digging a trench in spacetime,
rather than creating a wormhole. We used the jump drive to slide sideways
through normal space. Can we do that?”

“
Ooooh
, Colonel, I wish you had not asked me that question.
It is possible, for 
Skippy
. While I understand the theory, I am not
familiar with the actual application. You must understand, the ship 
might

survive such a maneuver if Skippy were here. If I were to attempt a spacetime warp
as you suggest, the ship will certainly be destroyed.”

“I
understand that,” he knew the crew were looking at him. “Would the warp
maneuver make us collide with the enemy command ship?”

“Oh,”
Nagatha suddenly understood, and there was dead silence on the bridge. The
pilots were holding their breath. “Yes,” she sighed. “I believe so. Colonel,
the enemy destroyers are moving to surround us, and their commander is
demanding an answer.”

“How
long until we can warp?”

“We
are ready now.”

“Then
inform the enemy commander that we have an answer for them,” he clenched a
fist, “
right here
. Everyone,” Chang got out of his chair, standing to
look through the glass into the 
Dutchman’s
 CIC. “It has been an honor
serving with you.”

The
crew muttered responses, snapping crisp salutes. He returned the salute, then
sat down. “
Pilot,
 prepare to engage jump drive for
warp. Three, two-”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTY THREE

 

“-one-”

As
Chang counted down the last second before the desperate war maneuver, 
Valkyrie

appeared in a blinding flash of radiation across the spectrum, much more
energetic than a normal jump. The battlecruiser, its radiators glowing hot, was
positioned between the 
Dutchman
 and the enemy task force.

 

“
Belay
that
!” Chang barked, seeing the pilots had acted on their own, lifting
their hands away from their consoles. “
Valkyrie
? Joe?!”

“Hey,
Kong,” said a familiar voice, and Bishop’s grinning face appeared on the
display. “Sorry that we’re late, we had to run an errand first.”

“An

errand
?”

“It’s
a long story. Hey, did we interrupt something? I’d hate to-”

“We
are very grateful for the interruption,” Chang said quickly.

“You’re
sure? Because we can come back later, if you-”

“I’m

sure
. I hope you have a plan. Even with your ship, we are outnumbered
and outgunned here.”

“Outnumbered,
yeah. Outgunned? Shmaybe not.”

Chang
gave Bishop the side-eye. “Unless you have some-”

“Trust
me on this.”

 

“Skippy,”
I asked. “We’re connected with the enemy ships?”

“Yes,”
he snorted. “They are shouting ‘Surrender immediately’, with the usual threats
of turning your home planet into a radioactive cinder, subjecting 
you 
to
a slow and painful death, blah blah blah. It’s like they’re not putting any 
effort

into it, you 
know?
 Ugh. They are just phoning in these

threats,
 I am 
very
 disappointed.”

That
made me laugh. “Put me on camera, I’m ready for my close-up.”

“Whew.
That ugly mug of yours is enough to scare them.”

“Just
do it.” I stood up, glancing at my tablet. On the display, the face of a
Maxolhx appeared, I assumed that was the task force commander. On the tablet
was my prepared speech, a short concise message created and approved mostly by
Hans Chotek and the Three Stooges. It explained humanity’s position, offered a
mutually-beneficial compromise, and opened the door to negotiations. Though I
didn’t like mealy-mouthed diplomatic niceties, I had to admit this message
struck a good balance, and was firm and professional.

I
tossed the tablet back over my shoulder to clatter on the deck. “Hey, 
shithead
.
Yeah, I’m talking to you, fuzzball.” That got the alien literally spitting mad.
“What’s that?” I cupped a hand to one ear. “It sounds like you’re coughing up a
hairball. I’ll give you a minute.”

“Um,
Joe,” Skippy warned. “They are opening missile launch doors.”

“Joe!

Bishop
!” Chang shouted in my earpiece. “What are you 
doing
?”

“
You
,”
the Maxolhx pointed a claw-tipped finger straight at me. “Will 
die
.”

“Yeah,
we’ll see about that.” I snapped my fingers.

 

Denoth
turned away from the imager, his fingers manipulating holographic controls to
engage the ship’s weapons directly. No, he took control of all weapons in the
task force, aiming them at the ghost ship. A ship flown by puny 
humans
.
When the ghost ship appeared so suddenly, even Denoth had experienced terror.
Fear of the unknown. Now, knowing that the feared ship was somehow flown by
humans, he felt anger and disdain, not fear. The ghost ship had escaped from a
damping field before, but not at so short a distance. It could not run, not
hide, and not fight itself to freedom. Not against an entire task force.

“All
ships,” he announced unnecessarily, for he had taken direct control of weapons
aboard every ship under his command, even that of Illiath’s cruiser 
Vortan
.
“Target the ghost ship and-”

He
froze, his claws twitching.

On
the display, and through his ocular implants, the ship’s sensors were showing
him something extraordinary. Something totally unexpected.

Something
shocking.

Something
that broke through his numbness and astonished him again.

The
ghost ship was deploying weapons. Docking bays had blown open, and a variety of
weapons were emerging.

He
recognized the profiles of those devices.

They
were 
Elder
 weapons.

 

 

Oof
.

Darn
it, I guess I forgot to tell part of the story, didn’t I?

Stupid
brain.

I
hate it when that happens.

Anyway,
back while 
Valkyrie
 fell toward the core of the planet, Skippy’s avatar
was just a dimly-glowing point of light, dancing in my vision as the ship shook
violently. On the main display, the symbol representing the ship was
approaching the red line of crush depth, with another part of the display
showing the armor plating of 
Valkyrie’s
 nose was glowing white-hot.

Just
as I closed my eyes, the avatar flared to life, blindingly bright.

“
No
!”
Skippy roared. “Not this time. Fuck. 
THIS
!”

Holding
up a hand to shade my eyes from his painfully bright avatar, I squinted at him.
“Skippy! Get 
out
 of here!”

“No.

No
! Joe, I don’t care. I am 
not
 abandoning my friends again. 
Never

again. We are going through this together.”

Damn
it, we didn’t have time for this shit. “Nice gesture, Skippy, but it won’t do
any-”

“Joe,”
he cut me off. “Do you have a flat-head screwdriver?”

“A 
screwdrive
- Why do you need a-”

“Because,
Joe,” in one of his hands appeared a shiny silver can, like a one-gallon can of
house paint. “I’ve got a fresh can of 
Whoop-Ass
, and I need to pop it open.”

What
the hell, I figured, why not? Making a fist, I held out a hand and opened it,
pretending to toss something to him.

A
holographic screwdriver appeared in his other hand, and he worked it around the
lid of the can, prying it open while he muttered to himself. “You try to be a
good guy, you 
try
 to be polite and reasonable, you 
try
 to follow
the rules, but what does it get you? Nothing. Absolutely 
nothing
!” The
imaginary lid popped off and a bright light burst forth from the can. “So,
fine. You want to play it that way? 
NO MORE MISTER NICE GUY!
”

The
avatar disappeared.

The
ship was slammed to one side. If my chair didn’t have a suspensor field, it
would have snapped my neck. 

The
main display switched to a schematic of the ship, highlighting a section of the
ship’s portside hull.

“Sir,”
Chen shouted. “Hull breach portside between frames thirty-seven and forty-one!
That,” she turned to me, her face reflecting horror. “That section includes Skippy’s
escape pod.”

Shit.

He
was gone.

Whatever
Skippy tried to 
do,
 he had failed.

Thrown
off balance, the ship lurched to one side, the nose spinning 
around

so we were falling belly-first. The schematic showed armor plates tearing
loose, like a giant was pulling a zipper along the belly of the ship.

Then
it got 
really
 violent.

I
lost track of what happened, my brain was being jostled so badly, I couldn’t
get my thoughts in order. At some point, 
Valkyrie
 flipped on its back,
then was falling tail-first. We were totally out of control, the pilots unable
to understand what was going on at any one moment. All the thrusters were
offline anyway.

 

It
stopped.

It
just 
stopped
.

The
ship was motionless. According to the display, we were hanging below the
crush-depth limit, yet the ship was intact. Mostly. I was grading on a curve.
There was a gaping hole in the forward portside, automated damage control was
dealing with it.

“What,”
I gasped, choking, disoriented. “What’s happening?”

“Your
guess is as good as mine,” Reed said from the pilot couch, holding up both
hands. Whatever had halted the ship’s fall, it was out of the pilot’s control.

“Shields?”
I asked, blinking and squinting at the display.

“Shields
are, like, not working, man,” Bilby reported. “Uh, like, we turned off the
generators, remember?”

“Yeah,”
I responded. Did I remember that? Maybe. “Can we turn them on?”

“I 
dunno
, Dude. We’re 
kinda
 fine
without them now, you know? Might need the power for something else. Two of the
reactors got shaken up 
real
 bad, I stopped the fuel
flow. They’ll be ready, probably, after I finish inspecting for major damage.
Oh, hey. Do you think we should try the engines again?”

“Not
yet!” I said quickly. “Don’t do anything until we know what is happening. What 
is

happening?”

“I
have, like, no idea. This is totally blowing my mind.”

Clenching
a fist, I forced myself to remain calm. “Bilby, tell me the facts you know.”

“Um,
sure. If you want me to guess, I think we’re in some kind of bubble. A bubble
of low pressure. The air outside is the same composition as this planet’s
atmosphere, there’s just, like, 
less
 of it, you know?”

“Why
aren’t we falling? Are we caught in an antigravity current?”

“Nope,
no. I think it’s some kind of suspensor field. It’s not pulling from above, or
pushing from below, it’s all around us. Kind of 
mystical
. It’s freaking
me out. Oh, hey, one more thing. Cargo Bay Twelve had a massive radiation
spike, just as we stopped falling.”

“Any
idea what caused it?”

“No,
man. I’m totally blind in there. That is 
not
 cool.”

“Not
cool at all,” I agreed. “Bilby, can you get some bots over to see what happened
to Skippy’s escape pod? Check if- Hey. Can you ping him?”

“I’ve
been doing that. He’s not answering. I’m not getting an answer from whoever
controls this place, so that’s good, right?”

“Maybe.”
Sometimes, Bilby’s chill surfer persona made me forget that he was a
super-smart AI.

“Sir?”
Simms got my attention. “We can’t stay here forever.”

“Yeah.
Hmm. Dropships are not an 
option,
 they would be
crushed once they fly outside the bubble. Bilby, how big is this bubble around
us?”

“About
seven kilometers, it’s a perfect sphere. I would expect it to be flattened a
bit on the top and bottom, from the pressure gradient, but it’s not. Um, the
bubble is also 
thick
, about a hundred sixty meters from the inner wall
to where it fades away outside.”

Simms
and I looked at each other, both considering our options. She spoke first. “Can
we launch a probe drone?”

“Wow,”
Bilby said. “Don’t know if that’s a good idea, like, what if the drone pops the
bubble?”

I
agreed with Simms. “We have to do 
something
. Launch a probe and fly it
super slow, can you do that? If the bubble degrades when the probe contacts it,
bring it back here.”

“Ok,
Dude. Give me a minute to find a probe I can trust, everything got shaken up
while we were falling.”

“Like
my head,” Simms rubbed her temples. “Sir, we shouldn’t use the engines just
yet, but the primary thrusters use the same technology. I suggest we try moving
the ship a couple meters, see if the bubble moves with us?”

“Good
idea. Bilby, do you have any objections to trying the thrusters?”

“No,
man, but be 
gentle
. They got shaken up too.”

“Pilot,
move us-”

“Ugh,”
Skippy’s avatar shimmered to life, or something like that. It was dim and hazy,
and the oversized hat was dented and torn and stained. The squashed crown of
the hat had what looked like 
bullet
 holes in it. “Please do 
not

do that,” he asked in a low, weary voice.

“Skippy!”
I tried to stand, forgetting the straps holding me into the seat. “You’re 
alive
!”

“Large
and in charge, Baby,” he drawled like he’d taken way too many sleeping pills.
“Don’t screw with the bubble, please. I’m still establishing control over the
native systems down here.”

“Down

here
? Where is ‘here’? Where are you? Your man cave exploded.”

“Yeah,
sorry about that. I kind of lost containment, in a minor, non-catastrophic way.
Oh no! I just realized all my precious artwork is gone! My Elvis belt!” He
sobbed.

“Your
canister is gone?” I asked fearfully.

“No.
It got damaged, but right now it is rolling around on the deck of Cargo Bay
Twelve. It is hot, like, 
hot
. About four thousand degrees. Also
radioactive. Whew! You do 
not
 want to go in there without a big can of
air freshener, if you know what I mean. Best for anyone not to go aft of Frame
One Eighteen for a while. Don’t worry, my canister won’t melt through the deck
plates, and it is cooling down. The radiation is all short half-life stuff, it
will disperse soon. We’re not using that part of the ship for anything right
now, it’s no great loss.”

“We
will do whatever you think best,” I saw that Simms was tapping on her control
pad, sealing off that part of the ship. “Skippy, what happened? Did you
persuade the entity in charge here to cooperate with you?”

“No.
I 
tried
 that. Nice guys finish last out here, Joe. We had a knock-down,
drag-out fight. Basically, I 
beat
 the thing to death. It wasn’t pretty,
I will be recovering for weeks. That is weeks in slow monkey time.”

“You
beat- How?”

“Not
with my 
fists
, dumdum,” he scoffed, and it was good to hear that a bit
of the old Skippy was still in there. “I burned it out, by pouring uncontrolled
energy into its matrix. The thing is 
fried
, Joe. I’m having to control
the subsidiary systems down here by myself. Um, this is going to be a bit of a
problem.”

“How?”

“I
can’t leave here, until I can stabilize the gravity-dispersal field, or retract
it. Unless it is retracted very slowly and carefully, it could disrupt the
orbits of all planets in this system. Avalon could become uninhabitable.”

“Shit.
Can you-”

“I
am fairly confident the subsidiary system that controls the 
gravitic

dispersal field will be able to operate on its own soon, but it would be safer
to allow it to retract and be deactivated. Slowly and carefully, of course.”

“Whatever
you think best. Uh, what do you mean by ‘soon’? We can’t stay 
here,
 we have to get back to Earth to begin the evac
operation.”

“Um,
yeah, about that. Heh 
heh
.”

“Shit.”
Everyone on the bridge had the same horrified expression.

My
mouth was frozen. Simms had the courage to ask the question. “Avalon can’t be
our Beta site?”

“Huh?
No. Or yes. I mean, there is 
no
 reason that Avalon can’t be a perfectly
nice place to live, if you like isolation, boredom and deprivation.”

“That
is better than 
extinction
,” Simms retorted. She hated it when Skippy was
flippant about a serious subject.

“Oh,
sure. Of course,” he stammered nervously.

My
mouth was working again. “If this place is not a threat to Avalon, then why
can’t we proceed with the evac?”

“Well,
Joe, I guess you could, if you want to. It’s just, I found something 
interesting

down here.”

Again,
I shared a skeptical look with Simms. For the Merry Band of Pirates,
‘interesting’ was rarely a good thing. “What 
is
 this place? Why did the
Elders hide it?”

“They
hid it because it’s an 
arsenal
, Joe. There is a big cache of Elder
weapons down here.”

The
crew gasped in shock.

I
had a different reaction.

I
pumped a fist and breathed “Score!”

Simms
stared at me, stunned. “Holy 
sh
- You 
expected

to find Elder weapons here?”

“Well,”
I shrugged as casually as I could. “It was more like I 
hoped
 they would
be here. I couldn’t think of any other reason why the Elders would conceal an
entire planet. Plus lock a wormhole with a password.”

“Oh,
you son of a-” her stare had turned to a glare. “You- 
Why
 didn’t you tell
me?”

“I
figured you would say ‘No’ to coming here,” I answered with a shrug.

“I
would have said ‘Yes’. 
Hell
 yes!”

“Uh-”

“My
objection was about coming out here to poke this place with a stick. If I had
known there might be an arsenal of super-weapons, I would have 
walked

here if I had to.”

“Uh-”
I was saying that a lot.

“Sir.
You need to trust your crew.” She was hurt, like, 
really
 hurt.

“Sorry,”
I hung my head. “It’s just, I didn’t know for sure. Skippy, did you know? Or
suspect?”

“I
had no clue,” he admitted. “Is 
that
 why we really came here?”

“Yes.
You said our probability set for survival is narrowing, and you’re right.
Bringing a couple hundred people out here just before Earth is obliterated is
not a 
plan
, it’s giving up. Fuck that. We need a Hail Mary. We had
nothing much to lose, so I figured this was worth a shot. Please tell me two
things. Three, actually.”

“Ok,
shoot,” he said, as his beat-up admiral’s hat bobbed back and forth.

“The
ship can get out of 
here?
 And fly?”

“Yes
and yes. Was that two questions?”

“One,
actually. You can lift us out of here, in this bubble?”

“Absolutely.”

“OK,
then here is Question Two: can we get access to the Elder weapons?”

“Whew.
Are you sure you want to, Joe?”

“Hell
yes.”

“The
answer is yes. I can even have them delivered to low orbit. Shipping is free,
if you have an Elder Prime account?”

“How
about if I sign up for a three-year Weapons of Mass Destruction subscription
plan?”

“That
will do,” he chuckled. It was good to hear him laugh again. “What is your last
question?”

I
took a breath, knowing every eye on the bridge was focused on me. “Can we 
use

those weapons?”

“Whoa.
Dude,” Skippy gasped. “Seriously?”

“I
have never been more serious.”

“Um,
yeah. The triggering mechanism is built in, and I have the authorization codes.
Wow. Now can 
I
 ask a question?”

“Sure?”

“Have
you completely 
lost
 your freakin’ mind? You do realize that if you
trigger any of those weapons, Sentinels will stomp Earth into tiny little
pieces?”

“I
realize that, Skippy. In fact, I am 
counting
 on it.”

“Holy
shit. The brain damage must have been worse than-”

“My
brain is working just fine, Skippy. Never better. Can you move the bubble, and
the ship, while your canister is aboard?”

“No,
but I have a workaround for that. I have tied the bubble control system to the
pilot console. You give the command, and the bubble will pull you up to where 
Valkyrie’s

engines can take over.”

“Outstanding.
Fireball, get us moving.”

“Um,
OK,” Reed said. “I see it. All I do it press this button?” She addressed the
question to Skippy.

“You
got it.”

On
the display, the bubble began rising. Other than a faint vibration I felt with
my feet, there was no sensation of movement. “Skippy, however many of those
weapons we can fit aboard 
Valkyrie
, bring them up to low orbit. Leave the
rest in the armory, or whatever it is down there.”

“We’re
going to Earth, Sir?” Simms asked.

“Yes.”
I relaxed back in my chair. Truly 
relaxed
, like, for the first time
since Columbus Day. “But first, we need to run a few errands on the way home.”

 

 

We
ran errands as quickly as we could, not even stopping at the gift shops along
the way. I promised everyone a snow globe later, if we survived. After the last
stop, we pointed 
Valkyrie’s
 nose toward Earth and began jumping.
Technically, we pointed the ship’s nose 
away
 from Earth, because the
closest wormhole was in the opposite direction.

“Joe,”
Skippy whispered in my earpiece as I sat in my command chair. “We need to
talk.”

“What
is it?” I said aloud. “And talk to me on the bridge speakers, please.”

“OK,”
his voice rang out too loud, startling the crew. They glanced at me, suspicious
because clearly, they were hearing a conversation that was in progress. “What
is it?’

“The
jump engines. All this jumping has been too much strain. We need to slow down.”

“We

can’t
 slow down. Damn it, we may already be too late.” Our errands were
necessary, we may not have done enough. But we might also have been away too
long. Now that we were headed home, I was second-guessing myself. Would we
return to Earth, only to find a radioactive cinder?

“The
engines need maintenance.”

“Conduct
running repairs.”

“I’ve
been 
doing
 that. It’s not enough. Have you felt the vibration when we
jump?”

“Yes.”

“That
won’t get better. The coils, the reactors, everything is overheated and wearing
out. This ship is a battlecruiser, not a star carrier. It was not designed to
jump continuously for such a long time.”

“This
ship is a battlecruiser that 
you
 rebuilt, with a drive you modified. It
can take the strain a little longer.”

“Joe,
you’re not listening to me. The ship could fly apart.”

“
Fly
her apart,
 then!” I thumped a fist on the armrest. “Skippy, I am serious.
Forget stealth and the shields and everything other than speed. We need to get
home, 
now
.”

He
sighed. “I will do my best. That’s all I can promise.”

“That’s
all I can ask. Can we go to a hundred and seven percent on the reactors?”

“The
reactors have been running at a hundred 
twelve
 percent since we left
Avalon,” he reminded me. “Any hotter, and the radiators will 
melt
.”

“Understood.
Can you vent reactor plasma for cooling?”

“Um,
Jeez, I guess we could do that, but that would consume an enormous amount of
fuel.”

“We
have plenty of fuel. Do it.”

If
we didn’t get to Earth soon, it would all be for nothing.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTY FOUR

 

“Do
they see the weapons, Skippy?” I asked, knowing our Elder devices had deployed
outside the hull, in clear view of the Maxolhx task force.

“Unless
they are completely freakin’ blind, they must see them.”

“Do
the Maxolhx know what they are?”

“Based
on the hysterical chatter between ships, I would say the answer to that
question is a solid ‘Yes’.” he chuckled. “
Hee
 
hee
, I think the kitties aboard those ships will all need a
change of underpants soon.”

“Great.”
With a gesture, I turned the bridge microphone back on and waved at my
counterpart. “Sur-
prise
, shithead.”

 

Aboard
the 
Flying Dutchman
, Colonel Chang was riveted to his chair in shock. He
exhaled, not having realized he was holding his breath. “What is he 
doing
?!
He can’t-”

“Sir?”
Adams shouted from the CIC. Her grin stretched her face from ear to ear. “That
is 
Joe Bishop
 over there. Cool it. He’s on a roll.”

Chang
shook his head ruefully. “If the situation calls for a truly futile and stupid
gesture,” he muttered, “Bishop is the one to do it.”

 

The
first thing Admiral Denoth did was to carefully watch his trembling fingers
safe and lock out every weapon aboard every ship in the task force. Actually,
that was the second thing he did. The 
first
 thing he did was rather embarrassing,
and he wanted to forget about it. Which he could do, right after he changed his
underwear.

Later.

He
had a crisis to manage.

Unexpectedly,
it was the worst crisis in the long history of his people.

The
treacherous Rindhalu having Elder weapons was bad enough. Those spiders had
used Elder weapons to attack the Maxolhx, then lied and blamed the Maxolhx when
Sentinels appeared from nowhere and stomped both species almost back to the
Stone Age.

The
Rindhalu had learned their lesson, they had never again employed their fearsome
arsenal of Elder weapons, nor had the Maxolhx. Neither side had even threatened
to use their stolen weapons, they didn’t have to. Each side knew the other side
had the weapons. Both sides had come to the conclusion that using Elder weapons,
was the same as pointing a gun at their own heads and pulling the trigger.
Certain suicide.

The
Rindhalu could be trusted never to actually use their hellish cache of advanced
weapons.

Humans
were different.

They
were young and primitive and foolish and-

Denoth
smiled, looking up at the being who was jabbering meaningless words at him from
the ghost ship. “All ships,” he transmitted through his cranial implant. “On my
signal, disperse at maximum acceleration. Get to jump distance and perform a
maximum-distance jump. Meet at Rendezvous Point Three.” He then switched to
speaking in primitive style, with his 
voicebox
.

 

The
Maxolhx commander was ignoring me, which was fine by me. While he was busy
doing something else, he wasn’t shooting at us.

“Um,
Joe,” Skippy said nervously. “I think he may be calling your bluff.”

Hiding
my mouth behind a hand, I allowed myself a stress-relieving “
Shit!
” Then
I straightened up, as the alien commander looked at me and spoke.

“Human,
I do not know how you captured one of our warships, but you 
will
 return
it to us.”

“Let’s
not, and pretend I did?”

“No,”
his face screwed up with anger. “You will not speak to me in such a
disrespectful manner.”

“Well,
I already am, so-”

“You
will pay for your crimes. Both against my people, and for acquiring banned
weapons. Your species should not possess such weapons, they are extremely
dangerous. You will surrender your ship, now.”

“Hey,
pal, in case you’re not keeping up with current events, 
I’m
 the one with
the Elder weapons. 
I
 will be making the demands here.”

“Or
what, human?” It was his turn to smile. “You cannot 
use
 those weapons.
They are useless to you. No, not entirely useless. I will allow you to use
them, to bargain for your life.”

I
frowned, furrowing my brow, certain he had software to interpret human body
language for him. “These weapons are dangerous, that’s for sure.”

“Stupid
primitives like yourself should not play with such deadly toys.”

“Gosh,
well. You’re right. Nobody should play with these weapons. It’s a good thing
that, before we got here,” I took a breath. “We planted Elder weapons in half a
dozen major star systems, of your people 
and
 the Rindhalu. Skippy, send
the data files, to prove we went to all those places.”

“You

what
?” The enemy screeched. “You cannot-”

“Hey,

furball
. Shut your mouth while I’m talking. Yeah, that’s right, you
heard me. There are weapons of unimaginable destructive power in 
seven

of your major star systems, and six of the Rindhalu. Triggering those weapons
will summon devices of even greater destructive power, to wipe you and the
spiders from existence. We have a critical mass of weapons, in strategic
locations, to ensure no part of this galaxy would survive. The weapons are
stealthed, in case you are thinking of looking for them, and they have
proximity sensors, in case you are thinking of screwing with them. So,” I took
another breath. “Any questions?”

“Use
of such weapons would kill 
your own
 people also, human!”

“Yeah.
That part sucks, 
but,
 what can you do, huh?” I
shrugged. “The principle is called Mutual. Assured. 
Destruction
. Look it
up, if you don’t understand. It has kept the peace between you and the spiders.
Now it can keep the peace between the three of us.”

“You
can’t 
do
 this.”

“I
already did. Oh, hey,” I snapped my fingers again, this time only being
dramatic. “Gosh, heh 
heh
, this is kind of
embarrassing. I
 totally
 forgot to tell you. Those weapons in the star
systems of you and the spiders? They are already authorized to fire, and on 
timers
.
If the timers expire, then,” I put my hands together and flung my fingers
apart. “Things go 
boom
, you get 
it?
 We will
need to fly back out regularly to reset the timers, which we can’t do if we’re
dead, in case you haven’t figured that out yet. Let me break it down Barney
style for you,” I said, wondering how that phrase would translate into his
language. “From now on, the survival of 
your
 miserable species depends
on the survival of 
my
 species,” I tapped my chest. “Got it?”

He
just gaped at 
me,
 his brain having blown a circuit.

“Hey

SHITHEAD!
 I asked you a question.” I was done playing around. “Do. You.
Understand. The. Situation?”

There
was a pause while he was motionless, making me think the video feed had frozen.
Before I could repeat my question, he slowly replied. “Yes.”

“Yes?

Yes
, you understand that your ships are to withdraw, and not come here
ever again?”

“Yes,”
the alien still spoke slowly. I wondered if other kitties were frantically
speaking to him through an implant. Also, I wondered if he could make his
subordinates shut the hell up and let him think. “May I suggest that we need
further talks on this subject? To, to establish protocols for future
interactions, to assure there are no unfortunate incidents that could lead to
widespread destruction?”

From
behind me, Simms whispered “That is actually a good idea, Sir.”

I
nodded. “We agree. 
We 
will contact 
you
 to set up a meeting.”

“How
will-”

“In
case this is a breaking news flash to you, we cracked your quantum interchanger
system, 
and
 we have hacked the manual access procedure for your relay
stations, so we can leave a message for you anytime. We can also 
read

your messages anytime we want,” I lied. “In case you are thinking of trying to
pull any sneaky shit on us. Do you understand 
that
?”

From
the expression on his face, he had at least been hoping to pull some sneaky
shit, even if he didn’t yet have a plan to do it. “I do understand.”

“Outstanding.”
With one hand, I made a shooing gesture, like when you want someone to go away.
“You cute little kitties run along now. I’m sure your crews are anticipating a
fun-filled road trip back home. Sorry you didn’t have time to visit the gift
shops on Earth, but if we meet again, I’ll see if I can bring a box of snow
globes or a nice fruit basket. Or, you know,” I smiled again. “Maybe a tactical

nuke
 to shove up your ass.”

 

When
the alien task force jumped away twenty-five seconds later, my knees nearly
collapsed. Simms actually got out of her chair to steady me, but I can say I
made it back to my chair without too much embarrassment. In instant later,
Chang’s face appeared in the display. “Could you please tell me, what the hell was

that
?!” His voice was an octave higher than usual, “Are those really 
Elder

weapons?”

“Yeah,
they’re real.”

“Where
did you get them? 
How
 did you get them?”

“It
is a 
long
 story,” I said, suddenly too tired to talk.

“Joe,
I’m a Pirate. 
Everything
 we do is a long story.”

“This
one is 
really
 long. Skippy is sending all our data to Nagatha.”

“All
right then, later.” He shook his head. “Can I ask, does the story involve you
buying those weapons by cashing in a huge stack of Taco Bell gift cards?”

“No,”
he made me laugh, and I didn’t feel so tired.

“Was
any of that bullshit you said real? About the timers and all that?”

“
All

of it was real. Sorry that we were delayed getting here, we had to fly all over
the freakin’ galaxy, dropping off those Elder weapons. They have stealth,
timers and proximity sensors, just like I said.”

“Holy

shit
, Joe.”

“Yeah,
Kong. Holy shit is right.”

“Mutual
assured destruction,” he pursed his lips and nodded thoughtfully. “That is a
dangerous game.”

“I
didn’t see a good alternative.”

“We
can make it work,” he said. “We have to.”

“I
hope so. I got the idea from talking with Friedlander. He suggested we use
Avalon to build a fleet of ships equipped with Elder technology, and use their
weapons to get payback for Earth. I told him that wouldn’t work, it would only
bring Sentinels to wipe us out.”

“I
can’t wait to hear the full story. What’s next?”

“Uh,
oh boy. Uh, you stay here. Make sure nobody dirtside does anything stupid.
Like, fighting each other down there. Do 
not 
give up control of the
ship, not until we get back. Oh, we will send Bert and Ernie over to the 
Dutchman
.
You bring them down to Earth, give our psychologists something to work with.
Tell UNEF that we can still bring groups of people to the Beta site, it would
be good to have a backup anyway. But there doesn’t need to be any kind of a mad
rush about it, not anymore.”

“Ooh,
Joe,” Skippy broke into the conversation. “Can we-”

“The
answer about your stupid survival game show is 
no
, you little shithead. Ah,”
I sighed. “Sorry. How about this? If the monkeys down there like the idea, go
for it.”

“Ha!
This is gonna be 
great
! You’ll see! Joe, what are the odds that the
idiot monkeys on your world will 
not
 like my game show?”

“Crap.
You’re right.”

“Joe?”
Chang prompted me. “If I’m staying here, where are you going?”

“I
need to run another errand. I won’t be long, I promise.”

“It’s
that important? Your crew would appreciate shore leave, at home.”

“It

is
 that important. 
Skippy,
 give the details to
Nagatha. But you’re right, Kong. I’ll ask the crew, anyone who really wants to
leave 
Valkyrie
 can go dirtside.”

 

Chang’s
image disappeared, as he had a lot to do, and a short time to do it. Simms
stood up. “Sir?” She arched an eyebrow at me. “A word?”

I
stood up and jerked a thumb at the chair behind me. “Reed, you have the conn.”

 

When
we walked into my office, Simms hit the control to slide the door closed.
“Listen, XO,” I anticipated her yelling at me, for very good reasons. “I should
have told-”

“Before
we get into that,” she said, making it clear we 
were
 getting into that
subject later. “We just learned something important, if you don’t realize it.”

“Like
what?” I gestured for her to sit.

“If
Skippy has a time bomb inside him, it didn’t work.”

His
avatar appeared instantly, scowling at Simms. “How do you figure that?”

“We
planted Elder weapons all over the galaxy, including a cache of them here
aboard the ship. They didn’t trigger. Think about it,” she looked at Skippy,
then at me. “If the AI bad guys still want to wipe out all intelligent life in
the galaxy, all your subconscious had to do was trigger those weapons.
Sentinels would have killed 
everyone
. That didn’t happen.”

“
Wowza
,” Skippy took off his admiral’s hat and rubbed his
head. “I can’t argue with that logic. Joe?”

“I
can’t argue either,” I agreed, thinking that now I was pissed at Simms. She had
been concerned that Skippy’s subconscious would trigger the weapons, and she
hadn’t said anything to me? Hey, jackass, I told myself. What goes around,
comes around. I glanced at my phone. “We’re on the clock here,” I reminded her.
“The short version is, Skippy bailed on us at Rikers, because he thought he
needed to fly off and fight the bad guys by himself, instead of wasting time
with us lowly monkeys.”

“But
he came back?”

Holding
up a finger toward Skippy, so he didn’t get into a long explanation, I nodded.
“He still thinks he has a responsibility to the entire galaxy, but he decided
that he couldn’t abandon his friends. Skippy can give you all the details you
want, later. Are we cool?”

“Sir,
all I care about is, are you holding any more secrets from us?”

It
took a moment to search my memory. Over the years, I had kept a lot of secrets,
almost all of them were OBE by that point. “No,” I shook my head. “I don’t
think so.”

“That’s
good enough for me. You and I,” she wagged a finger at Skippy. “
Will

talk later.”

“Oh,
crap. Do I have to?”

“Yes,”
I said. “It’s best to get it over with soon.”

“Ugh.
This is gonna
 
suuuuck
,” he groaned.

“You
have no idea. Because after you tell Simms the full story, you are going to
tell everyone. Including Margaret Adams.”

“Please
no. Anything but that.”

It
was my turn to wag a finger at him. “You should have considered that when you
flew off to be the big hero.”

“OK,
OK. Jeez, maybe I’ll get lucky and there 
is
 a time bomb inside me. You
two go do, whatever it is monkeys do, and we will-”

“Wait.
Simms,” I said, as she was getting up from her chair. “One more thing. The
Elder weapons aboard 
Valkyrie
. We can’t keep them aboard the ship.”

Simms
looked even more surprised than Skippy. “We can’t?” She asked.

“No.
We can’t actually 
use
 the damned things. As long as they are aboard the
ship, 
Valkyrie
 will be the biggest target in the galaxy.”

“The
senior species wouldn’t dare attack us,” Simms said. “Besides, they already
have Elder weapons.”

“It’s
not 
them
 I’m worried about. A second-tier species like the Thuranin
might throw their entire fleet against us, to get the weapons. Then there would
be
 four
 groups in the galaxy with weapons of mass destruction. And our
survival would depend on the 
least
 stable of the other three. We can’t
risk that.”

Simms
and Skippy looked at each other, then at me. She asked the question. “Where do
you suggest we store them? On Earth?”

“No.
We also can’t risk a bunch of filthy monkeys getting their hands on the
weapons,” I said with a tight grin. “Skippy, do you have a suggestion?”

“Sure,
Joe,” he was already snickering so hard, he could barely talk. “How about we
stash them in, Ur-
Anus
?”

“Very
funny,” I scowled at him.

“Oh,”
he laughed. “Whew. That joke is 
never
 getting old.”

“OK,
fine. We’ll do it my way. I want to jump the ship out to the Oort Cloud, or the
scattered disc of the Kuiper Belt, or wherever. Some place with anonymous
chunks of ice and rock. When we get there, we launch the weapons, and you guide
them to hide inside a comet, something like that. I do 
not
 want to know
where the weapons are. If I ever get captured again, I can’t reveal info I
don’t have.”

“Smart,”
Simms agreed. “Can you do that, Skippy?”

“I 
dunno
. You want only me to know where the weapons are?” He
asked. “In that case, the weapons must be flown autonomously, I will need to
program in the guidance before we jump. Otherwise, Bilby will know where they
are.”

“Hey,
man,” Bilby interjected. “I’m, like, cool.”

Once
again, I regretted that the ship’s AI sounded like a slacker. “It’s not that we
don’t trust you,” I explained. “You shouldn’t-”

“No,
Colonel Dude. I 
meant,
 I am cool with
 not

knowing where those things are. They scare me, man. I don’t like having those
death machines aboard the ship, you know?”

“I
know, Bilby. We’re agreed, then?”

Simms
pursed her lips. “UNEF Command won’t like not having control of those weapons,
Sir.”

“Yeah,
well,” I leaned back in the chair. “When we come back to Earth again, there are
a lot of things UNEF Command, and the US Army, won’t like. I’ll nuke that
bridge when we get to it.”

Simms
kind of gave me the side-eye, like she wanted to say something about me mixing
metaphors, but she wasn’t sure I was serious.

“Don’t
worry, XO,” I tried to assure her. “My orders don’t say anything about Elder
weapons, so I am not committing insubordination by not handing over the keys.
Not yet, anyway. Uh, do 
your
 orders say anything about-”

“No.
Not even close. If that is all, Sir?” She perched on the edge of the chair.

“Wait,”
Skippy pleaded. “One thing before you go. Joe, you don’t want to know where I
plan to hide the weapons. But, do you want me to tell you, if you ask?”

“You
mean later?” I asked.

“Yes.”

“Uh,
yeah, I guess. I mean, if we need them.”

“Great.
One problem; how am I supposed to know if you are being coerced to ask for the
weapons?”

“Uh,
well, if you see a gun pointed at my head-”

“I’m

trying
 to be serious, Joe.”

“OK.
Sorry. How about we have a code word? If I say the code word, you tell me where
the weapons are, or recall them to the ship or whatever. Will that work?”

“Um,
sure. Huh, this is cool. I have never done this sort of secret agent work.”

“Do
not get carried away,” I jabbed a finger at him.

“What
is the code word?”

Simms
stood up. “I will wait outside, Sir.”

“No.
XO, I can’t be the only human with access to those weapons. You and Chang need
access to the code word.”

She
looked queasy, like she was going to ralph. The color drained from her face.
“What if I don’t 
want
 that kind of responsibility?”

“You
should have thought about that, before you pinned on that shiny oak leaf
cluster,” I pointed to the silver lieutenant 
colonel’s

insignia on her uniform.

“Shit,”
she sighed. “What is the code word?”

“Uh.
Hmm. How about ‘Fluffernutter’?”

She
gave me The Look. You know what I mean. “The fate of the galaxy could depend on
one of us saying ‘
Fluffernutter
’?”

“Well,
when you say it like that, it just sounds stupid.”

She
stared at me.

“OK,”
I tried again. “Let me think. It has to be a word that none of us would say in
normal conversation.”

“Then,”
she shrugged. “Fluffernutter is perfect. Trust me, neither Chang nor I would
ever say that.”

“Deal,”
I said before she changed her mind. “Skippy, is there anything you need from
us?”

“No,
except we had planned to jump directly out to Backstop, and now you need to
tell the pilots not to select that jump option. The correct option is now
‘Hotel’. Begins with the letter ‘H’, as in, ‘
Holy shit
 I cannot believe
we are doing this’.”

“Me
neither, Skippy. Me neither.”

 

 

Of
our depleted crew, only Petty Officer Schmidt and Sergeant-chef Giselle 
Montand
 requested to leave the ship. They both had wives
who were pregnant when we left Earth, on what was supposed to have been a quick
trip to search for a Beta site. Schmidt and 
Montand

flew over to the 
Dutchman
 on a dropship, with my blessing, and I meant
that sincerely. The errand we were going to run was important, but we didn’t
need the entire crew. In fact, having two additional empty cabins would help. We
also did a bit of transferring people between our two ships, so overall, 
Valkyrie’s

crew complement decreased by three, even with Smythe and five members of
his STAR team coming back aboard. And several crates of food transferred from
the 
Dutchman
, because they would soon be able to replenish their
supplies from the bounty of Earth. Bert and Ernie went to the 
Dutchman
,
eventually to be brought down to Earth.

Oh,
FYI, Gunnery Sergeant Adams was back aboard my ship. Not that, you know, I
cared. Just thought I would mention that.

Ninety
minutes after 
Valkyrie
 jumped in, with me having ignored each and every
increasingly strident message from UNEF, we jumped away on an urgent errand.

I
hoped we weren’t too late.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTY FIVE

 

“Surgun
Jates?” Emily Perkins said with a catch in her throat. The Verd-kris soldier
was wearing his dress uniform, a jade green with bright blue and gold piping.
The outfit would have been considered gaudy by human standards, at least by the
standards of the United States military. She was wearing a standard US Army
Field Uniform, modeled after the current issue when the Expeditionary Force
left Earth, so long ago. Her uniform was well-worn, with creases and stains
that didn’t stand out from the camouflage pattern. There wasn’t time to clean
the fabric, and it didn’t matter anyway. Maybe UNEF-HQ would have preferred her
to be wearing a dress uniform when she met the aliens, as she would be
representing all of humanity, but her formal clothing was packed away aboard
the 
Sure Thing
, and that ship had jumped away at the first sign of trouble.

That
was unfair. The crew of the 
Sure Thing
 had jumped away when they detected
trouble they couldn’t handle, could not reasonably be expected to handle. Their
ship was an old star carrier with minimal offensive weapons, Perkins did not
fault Captain Gumbano for doing the only sensible thing. Even if the 
Sure
Thing
 had been available, she could not have gone aboard to escape the
peril facing the Alien Legion.

It
was her fault, her responsibility. She was not going to run away and leave her
people to suffer the consequences.

“Thank
you for seeing us off,” she added.

“I
am not here to watch you depart,” Jates replied stiffly. “I am going with you.”

“What?
No. You don’t have to. They only listed the Mavericks, my team.”

“I
am not a member of our team?”

“Of
course you,” even on the alien face, she could see the hurt in the crinkles
around his eyes. “You are to 
me
. The list does not include-”

“It
should,” he insisted. “Cadet 
Dandurff
 is going with
you.”

“His
name,” she winced, salty tears stinging her eyes. “Was on the list. Yours was
not, for whatever reason. Surgun, you do not have to go with us.”

“I
do not 
have
 to,” he agreed. “Colonel Perkins,” he came to attention and
saluted her. “Request permission to join you. It would be an honor to represent
my people.”

The
Kristang were a stubborn species, the Verd-kris even more so than their oppressive
cousins. In Emily Perkins’s admittedly limited experience, Surgun Jates was a
special case of stubbornness. He would not have donned his formal uniform and approached
her without first gaining permission from his own people. To deny him now would
be to shame all Verd-kris, and cause serious harm to their relations with
humans.

Not
that any of that mattered now.

“Please,
Colonel,” he added in a whisper. “We are all dead anyway, I think. I would
rather die confronting them up there,” he pointed a claw-tipped finger to the
sky. “
Than
 waiting down here for weapons to drop on
our heads.”

She
nodded, and drew her shoulders back. “Surgun, it would be an honor to have you join
us.”

The
skin around his eyes tightened, and his lips drew back to expose part of his
fangs. “It would have been nice to take some of them with us.”

“It
would,” she agreed. “Maybe later.”

He
nodded 
curtly,
 his expression grim. They both knew
there wouldn’t be a later, not for them.

 

Irene
lifted her hands away from the console as their Dodo cleared the atmosphere.
“That’s it, Ma’am,” she announced, her hands shaking slightly. From the
right-hand seat, Derek reached over to clasp her hand in his. “They have
control from here.”

“Don’t
touch the controls,” Perkins spoke without needing to, speaking because she
felt she had to say 
something
.

Derek
pointed at the consoles, which had gone blank. “We are locked out anyway.”

She
hit the button to release the straps that held her into the jumpseat on the
rear bulkhead of the Dodo’s cockpit. The view out the forward displays showed
the curve of the planet below, and two of the three small moons. Climbing into
orbit had carried the dropship around the night side of the world, dawn was
approaching, evident from the bright glow on the horizon. The starfield
glittered, none of the constellations familiar, as Earth was more than three
thousand lightyears away. None of those points of light represented starships, the
Ruhar fleet had jumped away as soon as they received permission. It wasn’t
their fight, and it would not have been a 
fight
 if the Ruhar resisted.
It would have been a slaughter.

 

It
was a shame. The Alien Legion operation on the planet Tohmaran had begun almost
flawlessly, a fact that had surprised everyone involved. The operation had the
Alien Legion working for the Swift Arrow clan of the Kristang, to take a
strategically important world away from the rival Bright Claws clan. The Swift
Arrows had begun the civil war in a bad position, stretched thin in terms of
military power and financial resources. In the years prior to the most recent
of their regularly-scheduled civil conflicts, the Swift Arrows had been overly
ambitious, taking and attempting to take worlds like Paradise. On paper, their
alliances had been wide-spread and strong, but once the fighting started, most
of their allies had seen the weakness of the Swift Arrows and split away. They
had also lost several important minor clans within their coalition, and the alliances
those minor clans took with them. At the time they contracted the Alien Legion,
the Swift Arrows were in serious trouble, and had been in negotiations with the
Black Trees to form an alliance. An alliance that would have boosted the power
of the Black Trees, and possibly shortened the war.

Which
is why Emily Perkins had suggested, and the Ruhar government approved, the
operation on Tohmaran. With fresh combat power available, the Swift Arrows had
ended their negotiations with the Black Trees and instead, attacked the Bright
Claws clan. Taking Tohmaran would be the first step in a three-phased plan to
restore the Swift Arrows to the top rank of major clans, ensuring the fighting
would go on for years.

Everything
was going to plan, until the plans all got thrown out the window when a pair of
Maxolhx cruisers jumped into orbit.

Perkins
had been in the middle of a conference call between the leader of the Swift
Arrow forces, General Ross, and the commander of the Ruhar Third Fleet, when
they were interrupted by alarms. Two senior-species warships were suddenly
hanging over their heads, emerging in the center of the Third Fleet formation
and radiating powerful damping fields to prevent the Ruhar ships from jumping
away. Admiral 
Lokash
 had immediately done the only
thing she could 
do:
 order all her ships to stand down,
avoid doing anything that might provoke the Maxolhx.

Now

Lokash
 and her Third Fleet had jumped away, all of
them. The only ships around Tohmaran were the two hulking cruisers of the Maxolhx
Hegemony. Plus perhaps one or two Jeraptha ships in stealth, observing the
situation with alarm and astonishment. Three Jeraptha ships had dropped stealth
and jumped away, minutes after the Maxolhx arrived. Perkins did not consider
the actions of the Jeraptha to be cowardice or callousness, they had been nothing
but sensible. Captain Scorandum’s little Ethics and Compliance force had lived
up to the letter of their unit, by doing the only ethical thing. Needless
violence would not have accomplished anything, would have been counter-productive.
The Maxolhx had made it clear they would not tolerate any interference or failure
to comply with their demands. The Alien Legion force on Tohmaran, including the
Verd-kris, would pay a heavy price if their demands were not met without
hesitation.

The
first demand was an immediate ceasefire by all forces on and around the planet,
including the Swift Arrows and even the Bright Claws, who technically owned the
world.

The
second demand was for Emily Perkins and her team to fly up to the lead Maxolhx ship,
to answer for their crimes against the Maxolhx coalition. The Maxolhx intended
to make a very public example of the Mavericks, and any failure to comply would
result in hundreds, perhaps thousands of Legion deaths.

“I
am so sorry,” Perkins repeated in a whisper. Her voice was hoarse, words coming
out in a whisper.

“It’s
not your fault,” Dave pulled her close to his side.

“It

is
 my fault,” she wiped away a tear before it could float away in the
zero gravity. Water droplets should not be allowed to drift in the dropship’s
cabin, they were a hazard to electronics.

As
if any of 
that
 matters, she told herself with annoyance.

“Ma’am,”
Shauna’s own eyes were red from crying, though her tears were likely those of
anger. “We all knew the risks.”

“Yes,
but I was 
stupid
,” Perkins insisted. “I pushed too hard, too fast. The rebellion
by the Bosphuraq, the attacks of the ghost ship, all have the Maxolhx looking
weak and
 feeling
 weak. They couldn’t let us win 
here,

it would be too much of a blow to their coalition. I should have considered
that. I should have 
listened
.” In the run-up to the hastily-planned
operation, the Jeraptha had cautioned that eventually, the Maxolhx could be
expected to push back, to intervene directly before their coalition was
weakened to the point where the Rindhalu roused themselves to take advantage of
the opportunity.

“Even
the beetles thought the Maxolhx would not take action here,” Jesse reminded her.
“They knew the Maxolhx would push back eventually. But not 
here
.”

“It
was a risk,” Perkins reached up and squeezed the hand Dave had on her shoulder.

“The
Jeraptha intel office laid seventeen-to-one odds against the Maxolhx
interfering here,” Dave stated. “For the beetles, seventeen-to-one is pretty
much a lock for something not to happen.”

Those
were comforting words. Perkins knew her team meant what they said, believed the
action on Tohmaran was a manageable risk. That was not the problem. The problem
was, she would have kept going after Tohmaran, would have utilized the momentum
the Alien Legion had built up. Eventually, they would have pushed the Maxolhx
too far.

She
had been reckless, foolish, drunk on her own success. Now she had lost
everything. How could she have been so arrogant? Humans had no business playing
any part in the conflict that had been raging across the galaxy for millennia.

“That’s
them,” Irene called from the cockpit, and everyone unstrapped to crowd around
the open cockpit door.

“Can
you zoom in the view?” Jesse asked. The two senior-species ships filled a
quarter of the forward cockpit displays, showing sharp outlines but few surface
details.

Derek
gestured to the blank console displays and held up his hands. “We can’t do 
anything
,”
he answered.

“It’s
Ok,” Jesse squinted, trying to resolve the images of the two alien warships.
“How big you think they are?”

Irene
answered. “Almost the size of a Jeraptha battleship.”

“Damn,”
Jesse breathed. “And those are just 
cruisers
?”

“We
think so, yes,” Irene said. “That’s how the Ruhar recognition database tagged
them.”

Jates
snorted from over Jesse’s shoulder. “What do the Ruhar know?”

“They
got their data from the beetles,” Perkins shrugged. Turning around, she looked
from one team member to the other. Her only consolation was that she had not
gotten more people killed.

“ETA?”
Shauna asked.

“Twenty-seven
minutes,” Derek guessed. “If the Maxolhx haven’t changed the schedule. They’re
flying this thing 
now,
 we are locked out.”

“What’s
the drill, Ma’am?” Jesse looked at Perkins, her face only a foot away as they
all crowded around the door.

“We
are representing humanity. And the Ruhar,” she looked to Nert. “And the 
Verd
-kris,”
she added with a nod to Jates. “Proper military bearing and discipline at all
times. Do not give those assholes the satisfaction of seeing you sweat.”

Jesse
made a fist and shook it. “Permission to pop one in the nose if I get a
chance?”

“Denied,”
Perkins shook her head. “Any gesture of defiance will get our people on the
ground killed. We can’t-”

“SHIT!”
Irene shouted and they all lost sight of the two alien warships in a brief
flash of light. “What the hell is-”

In
front of her and Derek, the consoles blinked back to life. Derek lost no time
in taking back control and pivoting the Dodo’s nose around so hard, the
free-floating passengers were thrown against the side wall of the cabin. “Hang
on!” He grunted as he authorized the main engines and advanced the throttles to
thrust of one-quarter gee. “Everyone, strap in, I’m going to full burn.”

“Wait,”
Perkins called out, shaking her head to clear the cobwebs from where she had
smacked it against a cabinet when the Dodo spun around. “Why are-”

“Derek’s
right, Ma’am, we gotta get out of here,” Irene craned her neck to see back
through the doorway. “Strap in now!”

“But-”

“Colonel,
unless I am totally wrong, that 
ghost ship
 just joined the party, and
they are not playing nice.”

 

Yanking
the straps tightly around her with Dave’s help, Perkins punched the armrest
controls to run back the display.

“Oh
my G-” Jesse gasped before Shauna shushed him, and they all watched the battle
in silent amazement, at least for the six seconds before Derek twisted the
Dodo’s tail and the dropship surged away with a force five times that of
Earth’s gravity. As her vision narrowed to a tunnel directly in front of her, Emily
tried to follow the action on the display, breathing evenly as an elephant sat
on her chest.

 

The
battle began as a flare of gamma radiation appeared without warning between the
two Maxolhx cruisers, photons carrying over one million electron-volts striking
the shields of the two unprepared ships. The high-energy photons were brief,
and had no effect other than illuminating the two senior-species warships like
strobe lights, as their energy shields easily absorbed the radiation.

What
came next was not so easily absorbed. The ghost ship, massive even when
compared to the enemy vessels, hammered away with broadsides at point-blank
range, each ship separated by no more than four hundred kilometers. Perkins at
first saw the directed-energy weapons and railguns only when they struck the
enemy’s shields, then space around all three ships became saturated with twisted
sheets of lightning and clouds of particles blown off the armor plating of the
two cruisers. Masers and particle beams became visible streaks, railgun darts
creating intense contrails as they raced in both directions. The cruisers were
firing everything they had at the ghost ship, which was hitting back with-

She
lost sight of the ships as the battle became an intense glow too fast for her
eyes to follow.

Then
something exploded and Derek shouted something she couldn’t 
hear

and the gee force kicked on even harder.

 

“
Em
,” someone was whispering in her ear. “
Em
, come on.”

Dave.
She recognized the voice. It was David Czajka. Her eyes fluttered open to see
him looking at her with concern and she became concerned for him, he had blood
seeping from his nose and a blood vessel had burst in the corner of his right
eye.

“Hey,”
he caressed her cheek with a hand, placing a cloth under her nose. “You Ok?”

“I
feel like,” she took a deep, shuddering breath. “Shit.”

“Me
too,” Dave grinned. “Hold this,” he pressed the cloth into her upper lip.
“You’ve got a nosebleed. We pulled eight gees for a couple seconds.”

“Eight?”
She gasped. The acceleration meter on the cockpit bulkhead was showing One
point Two Five, so they were still racing toward- Where? Or racing 
away
?

“Sorry
about that,” Derek called from the cockpit, his own voice shaky. “It got 
real
 kinetic, we had to get 
outta

there.”

“Dave,
your nose is bleeding too,” Perkins noted, looking around. Jesse and Shauna
were helping each other, and Jates was sitting stoically, giving her a thumbs
up. Nert pulled a cloth from a pocket, handing it to Dave, and giving Perkins
an uncertain thumbs up. Through the cockpit door, she could see Irene moving
around, her hands on the Dodo’s controls. None of them appeared to have
suffered serious injury from the heavy acceleration. “Bonsu, what’s happening?”

“Your
guess is as good as mine, Ma’am,” the pilot replied. “Sensors blanked out when
something exploded out there. They are resetting now, we should have a real-time
view in ah, oh,” he checked the console. “Ten, fifteen seconds?”

The
displays remained blank except for a blinking symbol in Ruhar script, indicating
the data feed from external sensors had been interrupted. When the displays again
showed images, there were blank spots that slowly filled in from the edges, as
the computer reconciled what the sensors were seeing.

“It’s
just- Where are those ships?” Perkins asked, manipulating the controls to zoom
her display in and out. “All I see is-”

“That’s
the wave front of a debris cloud, Ma’am,” Irene explained. “It will thin out as
it expands, we should be able to see- Uh oh.”

Something
dark was becoming visible inside the debris cloud, something moving.

“Damn
it,” Derek cursed. “Hang on, I’m gonna punch it, we-”

“Don’t,”
Perkins ordered.

“Ma’am,
if we don’t-”

“Bonsu,”
she said gently. “Another thousand kilometers won’t save us,” she explained.

“She’s
right,” Irene agreed with resignation in her voice.

Derek
took a deep breath. “All right. Continuing thrust at current rate.” The
acceleration would have the happy effect of keeping the passengers in the
cabin, rather than hanging out by the door and bothering the pilots. “We’re
getting a better view of- Oh, 
shit
,” he sighed.

A damaged
Maxolhx cruiser was emerging from the glowing debris cloud, which was thinning
rapidly and becoming dim as the particles within shed excess energy. The ship
was on fire, arcs of electricity sparking all around the charred hull.

“We
had a fifty-fifty shot,” Jesse said sourly.

Dave
thought his friend’s math was off, as there were two Maxolhx cruisers and only
one ghost ship. Now they knew at least one of the senior-species ships had
survived what had to be the explosion of a starship. “Hey, even if that ghost
ship had destroyed the two cruisers, there’s no reason to think the ghost crew
would be friendly to us.”

Jesse
turned in his seat. “How you figure that?”

“The
ghost crew are supposedly Bosphuraq, right? We invaded a Wurgalan planet, and
blew up a bird ship with a plasma cannon at Squidworld, remember? I don’t think
we’re on their Christmas card list, you 
know?
 The best
we can hope for is the ghost ship ignores us.”

Perkins
waved a hand to caution her team against speculation. “We don’t know why the ghost
ship came here,” 

“That
is easy,” Jates said. “They kill Maxolhx. The ghost ship knew the kitties would
be here, because of us.”

“We’ve
got some good news, the cruiser is not turning toward us,” Derek announced. “It
is accelerating, barely. Looks like ten percent of one gee.”

“I’m
amazed that ship can thrust at all,” Irene added, zooming in the display. “Look
at the battle damage.”

The
hull of the cruiser was a wreck on one side. Armor plates were peeled up or
missing, exposing the interior frames. The hull was blackened, illuminated by blue-white
arcs of lightning from ruptured power conduits. As the enemy ship limped away, it
slowly spun around, venting gas and plasma that overwhelmed the ability of
thrusters to stabilize it.

“Look,”
Irene pointed. “Their shields are off.” She pointed to the glow at the front of
the ship, where the unprotected hull plowed through the particles of the debris
field. The nose of the cruiser smacked into something large enough to make a
flash of light and leave a crater in the ship’s hull. “Shit! I wish the Ruhar
fleet had not jumped away. That ship is a sitting duck even for a Ruhar
warship. Ma’am, do you think there’s a chance the beetles hung around to see
what-”

“Missile
warning!” Derek interrupted. “The cruiser just launched a missile.”

“Just
one?” Perkins asked, trying to get that data on her display.

“Yeah,
looks like it. It launched from the far side, we can’t- Oh, no. No, no, 
no
.
It’s headed straight toward us!” Derek shouted to be heard over the cockpit
alarm. “Punch it now, Colonel?”

“No,”
Perkins squeezed Dave’s hand. “We are not running anymore.”

“It
won’t matter anyway,” Irene said in a flat voice drained of emotion. “Impact in
eighteen seconds. Everyone,” she turned to look back through the cockpit door.
“This has been a wild ride.”

Derek
reached over to hold Irene’s hand, just as the missile exploded in a brilliant
flash of light. “Where did that come 
fr
- Wow.”

Another
shape resolved from the swirling debris field, its forward section glowing as
its bulk shoved aside the particles of the cloud. There was one difference from
the way the cruiser was flying, one major difference. The new ship’s shields
were active, making a smooth bow wake that deflected impacts away from the
armored hull.

“It’s
the ghost!” Irene pumped a fist, and everyone cheered.

“Bonsu,”
Perkins ordered. “Now, it might be prudent to increase thrust to three gees. We
don’t want to get caught in a battle zone.”

“Right.
Thrust in five, four-”

“Belay
that!” Perkins automatically threw up a hand to shield her eyes as a brilliant lance
of fire stabbed out from the ghost ship, striking the Maxolhx cruiser
amidships, and pulsing to burn completely through top to bottom, cutting the
warship in half. The energy beam snapped off as abruptly as it started, then shorter
bursts of fire struck the two hull sections of the cruiser, blasting away
engines, missile launchers, shield projectors and anything else the ghost ship
crew considered a potential threat. “Bonsu, cut thrust.”

“Are
you sure?” Derek asked. “That cruiser could still explode, and we would be
caught in-”

“The
battle is over. Whatever happens next,” Perkins replied softly. “I want to 
see

it.”

“Me
too,” Irene agreed, patting Derek’s hand. “Honey,” she added in a whisper. “It
doesn’t matter. Against that ship, nothing we do matters.”

Derek
tapped a button and the Dodo was again drifting in zero gravity. “The ghost
ship is turning toward us,” He warned, keeping a finger poised next to the
engine control.

Emily
Perkins shivered at the sight of the massive ghost ship. Intel tagged it as a
heavily modified Maxolhx battlecruiser, based on the hull configuration.
Speculation was that the rogue Bosphuraq had somehow captured the
battlecruiser, an accomplishment substantially more difficult than the merely
impossible feat of blowing one to pieces. The beings flying that ship had somehow
developed technology that leapfrogged past both senior species in the galaxy.
Not much was known about the rogue Bosphuraq, other than their evident hatred
of the oppressive Maxolhx. If the ghost ship crew become allies, or at least
neutral regarding the Alien Legion, that could be- “Can we contact the ghost
ship?” She asked, subconsciously reaching up to brush her bangs away from her
face. It was a futile gesture in zero gravity, and the aliens wouldn’t care
anyway. “Let me-”

“We
are receiving a signal from the ghost ship,” Irene interrupted. “That’s odd,
it’s visual only. What is 
that
?”

All
the displays were showing the same image: a circular blue and gold logo, with ‘U.
N. 
ExForce
’ around the top, and ‘Merry Band of Pirates’
along the bottom.

“
ExForce
?” Dave gasped, squeezing Emily’s hand and making
her wince. “Hey! That’s one of 
our
 ships!”

“The
Expeditionary Force doesn’t 
have
 a ship, any ships,” Perkins said,
knowing she was denying the evidence of her own eyes.

“Who
the hell are the Merry Band of 
Pirates
?” Jesse’s mouth twisted into a
frown. “Who is that? Ma’am?” He looked at the Mavericks leader. “Some type of
secret special operations unit?”

“If
it’s a secret, it’s one I don’t know about,” Perkins muttered.

“
Em
,” Dave insisted. “Come on. They’re displaying a 
human

logo. That’s got to be-”

“Dave,”
Shauna thought her friend was getting carried away. “Maybe they’re showing that
symbol because they think that is 
our
 logo? Could they have met a UNEF 
SpecOps
 unit, and the Bosphuraq think we’re part of it?”

“What
I want to know,” Derek added. “Is what’s that weird thing in the middle of the
logo?”

“It
looks like a, maybe a potato?” Irene guessed. “Why would they have a 
potato

as a-”

“Um,
no,” Perkins cocked her head, as if looking at the image from a different range
would make it suddenly understandable. “It looks like some type of single-celled
organism, but that can’t be the-”

The
image changed from the static logo, to a person. A human male, seated in an
oversized chair, on what appeared to be the bridge or control center of a ship.

A
human male they all recognized, either from personal experience or from photos.

“Hey
guys,” the person said with a grin. “How you 
doin
’,
huh?”

 

Emily
was grateful that the Dodo was in zero gravity, because otherwise she would
have fallen onto the deck. “B-B-
Bishop
?”

“
Bish
!” Jesse and Dave whooped with delight at the
same time.

“We,”
Emily had to take a breath. “We all thought you were 
dead
.”

The
grin grew even wider. “Yeah, well, reports of my demise have been greatly
exaggerated.”

“
Bish
, that is 
your
 ship?” Dave couldn’t believe it.

“Ah,
this old thing?” Bishop made an exaggerated Aw-Shucks shrug. “We threw it
together from used parts. It was-”

“You?”
Another voice broke in, the speaker unseen. Snarky, condescending, a touch of
an upper-crust British accent. “
You
 threw it together? I built 
Valkyrie

out of Legos, with no help from you monk-”

“Skippy!”
Bishop shook a fist at the ceiling. “We agreed to take this slowly, remember?
Don’t frighten the-”

“You

also
 promised I could give the Mavericks a summary of our actions in the
form of an epic opera, which-”

“Whoa!”
Jesse waved a hand. “An 
opera
? Like, people wearing horns on their heads
and 
singin
’?” His accent slipped deeper South. “We
have to sit through one of 
those?
 
Bish
,
come on, we don’t-”

“Cornpone,”
Bishop put a hand over his eyes and shook his head. “I did promise the beer can
he could sing, but only-”

“
Beer
can
?” Shauna stared at the image of Joe Bishop, who she hadn’t seen since
their days on Camp Alpha. “Why is a beer can singing?”

“Oh,
man,” Bishop took the hand away from his eyes. “Shauna, guys, believe me, it is
a 
long
 story. Uh, sorry if we scared you. We intercepted a message from
the Maxolhx to the Thuranin, stating the kitties planned to come here and spoil
the party. We got here as soon as we could. The plan was just to jump in and
disable those ships, but one of them got Skippy pissed off, and-”

“Skippy?”
Another unseen voice, a stoner surfer boy. “Dude, like, that was 
me
 setting
up the weapons, you know?”

“Both
of you 
shut UP
!” Bishop roared. “That’s an order!”

Perkins
squinted to see the rank insignia. “Colonel Bishop. Could you please tell us
what the 
hell
 is going on?”

“Like
I said,” Bishop looked like a harried staff member of a day care full of
over-caffeinated toddlers, rather than commander of the galaxy’s most powerful
warship. “It is a 
long
 story.”

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTY SIX

 

The
Maverick pilots flew their Dodo expertly into the designated docking bay, which
we had cleared of other dropships. I didn’t know Irene Striebich or Derek
Bonsu, other than from spying on them while we were at Paradise. Really, of the
Mavericks, I had never met Striebich, Bonsu, Jates or 
Dandurff
.

Shauna Jarrett
 I had not seen or spoken with since
Camp Alpha, which seemed like an eternity ago. Emily Perkins? First, I had
never called her ‘Emily’, not even in my private thoughts. The last time I saw
Perkins, she was a major, and I was a newly-promoted colonel. Back then, we had
a good working relationship, and also, I liked her. Though she worked in intel,
I trusted her, and not just her judgment. I had trusted her. Trusted her to do
the right thing, for the Army and for her people. The success she had with the
Mavericks, and how she cared for her team, told me that trust was justified.

Her
success, damn it, was part of the problem.

Have
you ever watched Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan? Of course you have. If you
haven’t, I don’t know what is wrong with you, except that something is
seriously wrong with you.

OK,
there is a scene where Kirk is in a tunnel under the surface of an asteroid,
and the bad guy Khan not only steals the MacGuffin that drives the plot, he
traps Kirk down there, possibly forever. Kirk holds the communicator in
dramatic Shatner fashion and shouts “
Khaaaaaaaaan
!”
at his mortal enemy.

Why
do I mention that?

Because
in my head, as we filed into the docking bay, I was shouting “
Perkiiiiiiins
!”.

“Remember,”
Gunny Adams whispered from my left. “It’s not her fault, Sir.”

“Shit,”
I whispered back. “Did I say that out loud?”

“Yes,”
Simms hissed from my right. “Also, you’ve got a, hold still, Sir. You have
something on your shoulder.” She reached over and plucked the offending item
off my dress uniform. “There.”

“Thanks,
XO, Gunny.” Taking a breath, I stepped forward into the center of the red
carpet that had been rolled out to the side door of the Dodo. Lined up on both
sides were the STAR team, the Commandos, and the entire crew except for a few
on the bridge. We had literally rolled out the red carpet while waiting for the
Dodo to become safe to approach. After being in space, its skin was cold, the
engine exhausts were hot, and thrusters still leaked gas as the pressure
equalized. It had surprised me when Simms suggested a red carpet for the honor guard,
I didn’t know we had one aboard. But of course Simms had thought to bring one
up from Earth at some point, another reason I am fortunate to have her as my
executive officer. Skippy had run his cleaning bots over the carpet, it was
dusty from being in storage.

Behind
me were three flags, hanging from the ceiling. In the middle was the UNEF flag.
The original design from when the Expeditionary Force left Earth, not the new
design from a few years ago. I wanted the flag that the Mavericks would
recognize. On one side was a flag with the logo of the Merry Band of Pirates,
and on the other was a flag with the logo of the human portion of the Alien
Legion. Some of our crew thought the Alien Legion 
ExForce

logo with their motto of ‘Anytime, Anywhere, Any Fight’, looked like the logo
of a minor league hockey team, but I thought it was bad-ass. It had made me
wish the Merry Band of Pirates had a cool motto, and not Skippy’s suggestion of
‘Striving 
For
 Competence’.

Asshole.

Anyway,
the ship’s fabricators had cranked out the flags, and now we waited for the
Dodo to get the All Clear from flight control. That apparently happened,
because a light on the wall turned from yellow to green, and the Dodo’s door
opened.

Emily
Perkins was not first out the door. That honor went to Staff Sergeant Jesse
‘Cornpone’ Colter, and man, his grin was as wide as mine. I blinked because my eyes
were watering, that was due to allergies and not because-

Screw
it. It was an emotional moment.

Jesse
stood to the left of the door, Shauna came down the steps to line up on the
right, then Dave. Next were two aliens, a Ruhar cadet and a Kristang- No, a 
Verd-kris

surgun. I had to remind myself not to refer to Jates as a Kristang or a lizard.
Two others I did not know descended the steps. They must be the pilots Bonsu
and Striebich, and finally, in the doorway, was Perkins.

She
walked down the steps, paused at the bottom, and saluted me. “Permission to
come aboard, Sir?”

“Permission
granted 
with enthusiasm
, Colonel Perkins,” I replied. Before I could say
anything else, her mouth dropped open.

“Commandant
Fabron?” She stared at the Commando team leader. For a split-second I didn’t
understand, then I realized that of course Perkins would know Fabron, or at
least know of him. “How, what- You are with 
them
?”

“Only
recently,” Fabron answered with a Gallic shrug. “We are not 
with
 them,”
his eyes flicked toward me, and I saw that his statement was actually a
question.

“Fabron,”
I said. “Your Commandos are certainly with us, for as long as you wish to serve
with a band of bloodthirsty Pirates. We are 
one
 team.”

A
lot of military service absolutely 
sucks
. Truthfully, most of it does. Even
simple things suck. Like trying to fill out a form online, and discovering that
the certs on your ID card have to be updated to access the site, but you can’t
update your certs because the browser on your government-issued laptop blocks the
official Department of Defense site you need to get to, and the IT people tell
you that updating the browser requires a new version of antivirus software on
your laptop, software that you can’t download because the certs on your ID card
are out of date and it takes ALL FREAKIN’ DAY to resolve what should be a
two-minute problem. Not that I’m bitter about shit like that, and then the Army
wonders why they have a problem with retention when they saddle soldiers with time-wasting
bullshit.

Anyway,
much of military service sucks, but you get through it because that’s the job.
And because sometimes, you get to experience moments that make it all
worthwhile.

Seeing
the look of pride in Fabron’s eyes, when I assured him the Commandos were on
the team, felt good. Damn good. On the other side of the carpet, Smythe gave
Fabron a barely-perceptible nod, and not even the super discipline of the
Commandos could stop the grins on their faces.

“Bloodthirsty
Pirates?” Perkins asked Fabron with a raised eyebrow. “Let me guess, you 
being
 here is a long story?”

“Yes,”
the French officer acknowledged. “But not, perhaps, as long as the story of
some others.”

“Bishop?
Sir, do you mind telling me how-”

“We
needed to hire the Alien Legion,” I explained. “But not all of it. Just a
Commando team. We didn’t have time to go through the application process, so,”
it was my turn to shrug. “We cut out the paperwork. Fabron can explain later. Let
me introduce you to the crew. This rather disreputable, scruffy-looking fellow
is 
Lef
-tenant Colonel Smythe, leader of our
STAR team.”

“STAR?”
She asked.

“Special
Tactics Assault Regiment,” Smythe explained in clipped tones. “Formerly, I was
with 22 Special Air Services.”

“Mm,”
Perkins smiled. “I have met members of the Regiment before.”

I introduced
the senior staff, well aware that Jesse and Dave, and even Shauna were fairly
itching to get the formal ceremony over, so they could bombard me with
questions.

“Sir,”
Simms whispered and nudged me gently. Also, Skippy was shouting impatiently
into my earpiece.

“
Er
, well,” I stumbled. “We can continue introductions
later. Perkins, if your team will come with me, I will introduce you to an old
friend.”

The
Mavericks looked at each other in confusion. “An old friend?”

“From
Paradise. Uh, just the six of you,” I added the Verd and the Ruhar cadet
stepped forward. “Just the team who activated the maser cannons. Cadet 
Dandurff
, Surgun Jates, this will not take long, then I
will bring you to meet our special guest star,” I rolled my eyes while I
addressed Skippy the way he insisted on.

 

It
might surprise you to learn this, but Skippy can be a bit of a prima donna. The
surprise is that sometimes he manages to only be a
 bit
 of a prima donna,
instead of the whole nightmarish ego package. This was not one of those times.
Skippy demanded to be given the full star treatment in front of a new audience,
and because it was easier to go along rather than him making our lives hell, I
gave into his demands. Really, it was not that big a deal, considering all that
he had done for us filthy monkeys, and I also thought it would be fun.

“
Bish
,” Jesse pleaded as we talked down the passageway.
“Come on, man, ’fess up. What is going on? Where you been all this time?”

“I
promise, I will explain it all, ’Pone,” I turned right into the ship’s main
conference room, where we had coffee and light snacks laid out. The selection
of food wasn’t 
great
 but it was the best we had. After
the six filed in, looks of puzzlement, impatience and a touch of irritation on
their faces, I stood at the head of the conference table. “As I said, we have
an old friend of yours aboard the ship.”

“Who?”
Perkins asked, her own patience running thin.

“You
know him as your Mysterious Benefactor.”

“
Emby
?”
All six of them gasped at once.

Dave
glared at me, more than a little angry. “
Bish
, 
you

are Emby? Why didn’t you tell-”

“No,
not me,” I shook my head. Gesturing toward the table, I announced “May I
present the one, the only, the most awesomeness of all 
awesomenesses
-”

Believe
me, that introduction was pared way down from the gag-inducing lines of praise
that Skippy wanted me to recite.

“-his
majesty, Grand Admiral of the fleet, Skippy the Magnificent!”

Nothing
happened.

His
avatar was supposed to shimmer to life in a dramatic 
flare

of light.

“Uh,
Skippy?” I grimaced, while the six Mavericks stared at me like I’d lost my
mind.

“You
didn’t say it right, Joe,” he sniffed from the speaker in the ceiling.

“Oh
for- That is a lot to remember, Skippy,” I muttered, embarrassed. “Give me a
break, OK?”

“No,”
he pouted. “You need to say it right, dumdum. Ugh, why did I expect a filthy
monkey to-”

“Sir,”
Perkins had her arms folded across her chest. “Is this a joke?”

“The
joke is on 
me
, Perkins. 
Skippy,
 come on. I’m
sorry that I bumbled your grand entrance. Can I make it up to you, by listening
to one of your arias?”

“
Hmmph
. Make it one aria, 
and
 one crowd-pleasing tune
from my upcoming Broadway smash musical.”

“Deal.”

“BEHOLD,”
the voice boomed from the speaker as the hologram began to shimmer, projecting
swirling smoke. “Tis, I, 
Skippy the Magnificent
!” The fake smoke 
cleared
 and he stood there in all his glory, the admiral’s
uniform resplendent. I noticed that his chest glittered with a few more gaudy
medals than usual. Maybe he had awarded himself a medal for perfect attendance,
or something like that.

There
was silence, then Dave had the perfect remark. “Emby is a 
cartoon
?”

“I
am not a 
cartoon
, 
you
 ignorant cretin.”
Skippy’s voice dripped with outrage. “I am far beyond the poor understanding
of-”

“What’s
with the outfit?” Jesse asked, leaning over the table to peer at the admiral’s
uniform. “You look like a mascot from someplace like Chuck-E-Cheese.”

“He
is 
cheesy
, that’s for sure,” I laughed.

Skippy
hopped up and down on the table, fuming mad. “You monkeys are not giving me the
proper respect!”

“Actually,
they are,” I said.

“Emby
is an asshole?” Striebich glared at him.

“Hey!”
He screeched. “Why, you, I ought to-”

“That’s
the consensus, yeah,” I agreed. “I’ve known him for a while, and he was an
asshole right from the start.”

“Explain
this to me, Bishop,” Perkins said, momentarily forgetting that I outranked her.
“Our Mysterious Benefactor was just some sort of computer program?”

“I
am 
not
 just a-”

“Skippy,
chill,” I held up a hand. “Yes, Perkins. We were at Paradise while you were
activating those cannons. Sorry,” I looked from one face to another. “We
couldn’t tell you our true identity, so Skippy here played the part of Emby. He
is not a computer program, he is a person,” I emphasized the last part as a way
to boost Skippy’s fragile ego. “The being we call ‘Skippy’ is an 
Elder

AI of unimaginable power.”

“Elder?”
Shauna asked. “But that’s not- Joe, you’re sure?”

“Yeah,
I’m sure. Like I said, it is a 
long
 story. What you need to know right
now is, I am sorry we used you. The hamsters were going to give Paradise back
to the lizards. UNEF there would have been screwed. We couldn’t let that
happen, and we couldn’t let aliens know that a bunch of lowly humans were
flying around the galaxy in a stolen Thuranin starship. So we-”

“Thuranin?”
Jesse was bewildered. “
Bish
, this ghost ship is a Maxolhx-”

“A
Maxolhx battlecruiser, yes, but it’s a hotrod after Skippy’s auto shop pimped
it for us. Our other ship is a-”

“You
have more than one starship?” Perkins’s eyes bulged at me.

“Well,
yeah. Four now, actually. The Thuranin ship is a star carrier we call the 
Flying
Dutchman
, and we also have two Kristang troop transports. Plus we had a
Kristang frigate, that was the first ship we captured. It sort of got taken
apart to keep the 
Dutchman
 flightworthy. We have temporarily had other
ships along the way. Listen, I’m sorry we couldn’t tell you who your Mysterious
Benefactor was.”

“We
understand the need for OPSEC,” Perkins nodded slowly, her mind clearly still
reeling from all the revelations. “It didn’t work, though. The maser cannons.
The lizards didn’t give up, and the Ruhar still wanted to trade away the
planet. Until,” she stared at me. “
Someone
 just happened to discover an
Elder power tap, and some other gizmos.”

“Uh,
yeah, that was us, too.”

All
six of the Mavericks silently mouthed ‘Holy shit’.

Perkins
spoke first. “You planted a-”

“Except

we
 didn’t actually have a 
real
 Elder power tap,” I stared right
back at her. “Unlike some people I know.”

“You
know about that?”

“The
power tap you planted on Squidworld? I guess you were 
nvolved

in that somewhere. What I want to know is, where did you get it?”

“
That

is a long story,” she tilted her head at me.

“Fair
enough, we can talk about it later.

“Sir,
can we go back a minute? You planted the Elder power tap on Paradise, but it
was 
a
  
fake
?”
The expression on her face was not just astonishment, it was also ‘Why didn’t I
think of sneaky shit like that’? 

“It
is a 
long
 story. Bottom line is, we had to make the hamsters think
Paradise was worth holding onto. It worked, so- 
Oof
.”

“What?”
Dave asked.

“I
just thought, the Burgermeister is gonna be 
pissed
 at me when she finds
out we suckered her people into keeping a planet they didn’t want.”

“She’ll
get over it,” Perkins shrugged.

“If
not,” Striebich said with a scowl. “
Screw
 her.”

“Actually,”
a smile spread across Perkins’s face. “I believe she will think the whole story
is wonderful. Colonel,” that time she caught herself. “Sir, for a long time, I
thought Emby was connected with the Burgermeister.”

“That
was part of the cover story,” I explained. “We left a lot of bread crumbs pointing
in different directions, to confuse everyone. Hey, guys, we will have plenty of
time to talk. The reason I brought you here is to meet Emby himself. We call
him ‘Skippy’. He is an asshole-”

“OK,”
Skippy sighed. “I have to own up to that. But I am
 totally
 worth it.”

“
Most

of the time,” I wagged the finger at him. “He is also, I hate to say it, my 
friend
.”

“Any
friend of yours is a friend of mine,” Jesse said, while giving Skippy the
side-eye.

“In
that case,” Skippy made a short bow toward the other end of the table. “I am
very pleased to meet you, Staff Sergeant Colter. Indeed, I am honored to meet
the Mavericks. We have been following your exploits, through your reports, and,
well, any other information source I could hack into. I must say, we are 
terribly

sorry that we were not able to help you on Camp Alpha. I did not learn of the
incident until too late, and by then, well, we were busy intercepting the lizards
who were attempting to spread a deadly infection on Paradise.”

“That
was 
you
?” Dave blinked, like his mind was blown.

“It
was us, but mostly Skippy,” I gave him the credit he was due. “He developed the
vaccine also. Hey,” I snapped my fingers. “The lizard plan was to land a bunch
of infected Keeper idiots on Paradise, you know that much?” They nodded. “We
intercepted their dropships, and captured the Keepers. Those jerk-offs are on
Earth now. Uh, Skippy, are they still-”

“According
to UNEF Command, they are still being held on South Georgia island, in the
South 
Atlantic ocean
. They-” He paused to look at
Perkins, who was laughing to herself. “What is so funny?”

She
looked at me with, maybe it was affection? “You called them ‘jerk-offs’,” she
laughed. “You have come a long way, 
Colonel
 Bishop, but I think there is
still some of the scared buck sergeant I knew in there. It is refreshing.”

“Oh,”
I blushed. “Thanks.”

“
Bish
,” Dave said. “You got some ‘
splainin
’
to do. Sir,” he added.

“I
know, I know. We will go back so you can meet the whole crew, I wanted you to
meet Skippy first. Most of what we have accomplished out here would not have
been possible without him.”

“Sir,”
Shauna avoided looking at me directly. It was awkward for her, too. “You said
you have other ships at Earth? You have been there? Recently?” As she spoke,
she reached beside her to hold Jesse’s hand. “We can go there, go home?”

“Yes,
we can. We need to make some stops along the way, but if you want, we-”

Perkins
put a hand over her mouth, she suddenly looked ill. “Colonel, I know this ship
is powerful, but if you can get to Earth, then aliens can-”

“Perkins,
yes. Aliens can get to Earth. I know what you’re thinking, and it is not a
problem. It 
was
 a problem. For years, our focus was on stopping aliens
from reaching Earth, and exposing our secret. Maxolhx ships have been to Earth,
in fact, we came here straight from Earth, where we had a confrontation with a
Maxolhx task force.” I held up a hand and squeezed to make a fist. “We sent those
rotten kitties scurrying home with their tails between their legs. They will
not be coming back to bother us.”

“That
is a tremendous risk,” Perkins observed.

“It’s
not, because we have a cache of 
Elder
 weapons now,” I tried to say it
casually, but it came out as a boast.

“
Elder

weapons? Damn,” Perkins held onto a chair to steady herself. “Sir, that is
called ‘Burying the lead’. Maybe you should have told us that first.”

“Like
I said,” I let out a long breath. “It is a 
long
 story.”

 

 

Nert
looked down to inspect his clothing. He was wearing the standard-issue Ruhar
military gear for traveling aboard a dropship, including a sort of quilted vest
with multiple pockets, an oxygen supply and internal heaters. Maybe he should
have removed the vest and left it in the Dodo, but it was too late by then. Seeing
the signal from Colonel Bishop, he drew himself up to full height and stepped
forward through the conference room doorway. “Cadet Nert Dandurf,” he
announced, giving a proper human-style salute to the commander of the Merry
Band of Pirates. “It is-”

“No,
wait!” The holographic avatar standing on the conference table shouted,
frantically waving its hands. “Don’t say anything, not a word. Let me guess.
You’re wearing a vest, so- I got it! You want me to make a donation, to the
Coast Guard Youth Auxiliary?”

Colonel
Bishop seemed to find that immensely funny, for a reason unknown to Nert, who
stood with his mouth gaping open. “Cadet,” Bishop said, waving a hand when he
stopped laughing. “Sorry, I was laughing at the beer can. We are very pleased to
meet you.”

“
Hmmph
,” Skippy grunted, looking at the Ruhar from head to
toe. “I thought you’d be taller.”

“I
thought you’d be 
smarter
,” Nert blurted out without thinking.

“
Hey
!”
The avatar screeched with outrage.

“Oh,”
Bishop clapped his hands. “He got you 
good
, Skippy. Nice one,” the
colonel held up a hand.

Nert
slapped the hand in a simple high-five the way Jesse and Dave had taught him. “You
are Skippy?” He stared at the avatar.

“Skippy
the Magnificent, at your service,” the avatar bowed in a mocking manner. “I was
joking about that last part. I mean, I’m the Lord Commander of the Fleet, and
you are only a cadet.”

“Why
is your hat so big?”

“You
like it? It’s very impressive, huh?”

“I
was going to say ‘
tacky
’.” Nert replied truthfully.

“
Hey
!”
Skippy scowled. “Joe, I hate him already.”

“I 
like

him already,” Bishop grinned. “Cadet Dandurf, when dealing with Skippy, you
must keep in mind that he is an asshole.”

“A
super-smart, nay, mind-bogglingly smart asshole,” Skippy said, looking down his
nose.

Nert
bent forward from the waist to peer at the avatar. “You realize that any kind
of asshole is still, an 
asshole
?”

“
Ooooooh
,” the avatar shook its tiny fists. “You just
wait, I should-”

“Skippy,”
Bishop winked at Nert. “I am assigning Cadet Dandurf to be our official liaison
with the Ruhar. You will be working with him 
very
 closely.”

“Joe,”
Skippy moaned. “Please, anything but that.”

Bishop
shook a scolding finger at the avatar. “It’s your own fault, for not being
polite to our guest.”

 

 

After
Skippy’s grand entrances with the Mavericks, then with Nert, did 
not
 go
the way he planned, he tried a different tactic with the Verd-kris surgun.
While my only knowledge of Jates came from reading reports, he didn’t seem like
the kind of guy who appreciated a bunch of nonsense, and I advised Skippy of
that.

Skippy,
of course, ignored me.

Complying
with Skippy’s request, I escorted Jates down several passageways, to Skippy’s
new temporary mancave. It was not as luxurious as his previous escape pod, nor
did it have any nice decorations, and he bitched about that constantly. Whenever
he lamented the loss of his Elvis memorabilia or his original paintings, I
reminded him that it was all his stupid fault, and he had no one to blame but
himself.

Strangely,
saying that did 
not
 make him feel better. 

Personally,
I did not mourn the loss of his Fat Elvis belt, but I did feel bad about the
destruction of the original Dogs Playing Poker. That painting was widely
acknowledged as genuinely classic art, by guys who sit around drinking beer and
talking about stuff, instead of arrogant snobs who think they are better than
everyone. While I am sure that the guy who painted that piece imagined it might
one day be lost, or burned up in a house fire, he did not imagine it would be
destroyed inside a gas giant planet in another freakin’ galaxy.

As
far as I know, that is the only human painting to have been destroyed in
another galaxy, so I guess it has that going for it.

Anyway,
those were the thoughts going through my mind as I escorted Jates toward Skippy’s
temporary quarters. Jates was not big on small talk, so we mostly were quiet,
and to make it even more fun, it was an awkward kind of quiet. Not the kind of
quiet when buddies are sitting around chilling. This was like
meeting-your-girlfriend’s-father type of quiet, when the two of you don’t have
anything in common to talk about, other than that he knows you are the creepy
loser who is regularly defiling his sweet little girl, and he is wondering how
far off the road he would need to carry your body before burying you.

Yup.

That
 kind of quiet.

When
we were in a lift between decks and I just couldn’t stand it anymore, I heard
my stupid mouth say, “So, I hear you have served with David Czajka.”

Slowly,
he turned to look at me. He looked down, because he was considerably taller
than I am. “Yes.” He said, after a pause that made the situation even more
awkward.

Shit.
I wished I had kept my big stupid mouth shut. Inside, I was screaming at him
that I would have appreciated a 
little
 more detail about his service
with Dave, but fortunately I didn’t say that out loud. My mouth must have
missed a memo because I heard myself saying, “Dave, and Jesse, and I, served
together on Earth. We got into a lot of trouble together,” I added for no good
reason at all, because I am a moron.

He
looked down at me again, as we walked out of the lift. Maybe he took pity on
me, or maybe he was as tired of the awkwardness as I was. “I also have gotten
into much trouble with David Czajka. Due to Czajka’s actions, or inactions. You
humans would say that he is kind of an idiot.”

“Yeah,”
I shook my head ruefully. “That’s Dave for sure.”

“I
would trust him with my life any day,” the Verd announced unexpectedly. “He is
a fine soldier, and a decent person.” His expression changed and I couldn’t
read it. “Oddly, I consider Czajka to be my best friend.”

“Wow,”
I was taken aback, both by what he said, and the fact that he said it. “Yeah,
he is-”

“If
you tell him what I said, puny human,” he bent his neck to loom over me. “I
will snap your neck like a dry twig. Sir.”

“Uh,
yeah,” I stopped walking, as we had reached the hatch to Skippy’s mancave. “Hey,
I’m glad we had this little talk.”

Jates
just grunted.

“Uh,
you, uh,” I sputtered, gesturing toward the open hatch. “You go first, please.”

The
reason Skippy wanted to meet Jates in his escape pod was that the Verd would
have to bend down to get through the hatch, even though it had been designed
for the Maxolhx. Once inside, Jates would feel confined and intimidated,
according to Skippy. I had told him that his reasoning was full of shit, but he
wouldn’t listen to me. So, I went along with his plan, just to see the train
wreck firsthand.

Without
a word, Jates ducked and entered the hatchway, and I followed.

Once
inside, the Verd stoically took a seat, his eyes taking in the sparse surroundings,
then focusing on the only object that did not obviously belong. “Colonel
Bishop,” he pointed to the silver cylinder that was resting upright in a foam
cradle. “You brought me here to meet a can?”

“Most
people call me a 
beer
 can,” Skippy spoke, and his canister glowed blue.
He didn’t do the glowing thing much anymore, now that he had an avatar. Blue
meant he was happy, if my memory is correct. “Though that is a human beverage.”

“I
know what ‘beer’ is,” Jates’s expression did not change. “David Czjaka is part-owner
of a beer factory on Pradassis.”

“That
type of facility is called a ‘brewery’, and the planet’s correct name is either
‘Gehtanu’ or ‘Paradise’,” Skippy said to correct our guest, because he knew
that people just
 love
 to be told they said something wrong.

“Thank
you for clarifying that,” Jates said without his expression changing, except a
blood vessel in his forehead throbbed.

“You
are welcome,” Skippy pulsed a soft blue again. “It is my pleasure, no, my 
duty
,
to help flawed biological beings achieve better utilization of their limited intellect.”

“I
appreciate that.” Now Jates’s jaw was definitely clenching, and I am not an
expert on the body language of his species.

“I
am not a mere vessel for mildly alcoholic beverages,” Skippy continued, because
he was already batting a thousand. “I am an Elder AI. Although the term
‘artificial’ is itself only an artificial construct.”

“An

Elder 
AI?” Skippy’s revelation got a clear reaction from the Verd.

“Yes.
I know, you are awed by being in my presence. Do not feel that you are
especially unworthy, all biologicals have the same reaction to my awesomeness.
Also, do not be afraid. Unworthy though you may be, I am here to help you,
and-”

“Then,
the current situation in the galaxy is 
your
 fault,” the surgun growled.

“Um,
I, uh, what?” Skippy sputtered, his canister pulsing multiple colors.

“The
Elders,” Jates sat forward on his seat. “Left the galaxy, without securing
their very dangerous toys. They took no responsibility for those who came
after, though they 
did
 leave their killing machines active, to punish
those who dared approach their level of technology.”

“Um,
well, that is not exactly, um- Joe, tell him!”

“Don’t
look at me,” I held up my hands. “I 
agree
 with Jates.”

“But,

but,
 you know nothing about me. I am a supremely-”

“You,
and your kind, are supremely 
irresponsible
. This war has gone on
forever, and has killed, or caused suffering and misery, for 
trillions

of intelligent beings. The Elders, and their trinkets,” he jabbed a claw-tipped
finger at Skippy, “could have prevented, or stopped, the conflict, but they do
not 
care
.”

“Hey!
This is not, um, 
er
, you are here to be awed by me!
To experience wonderment, to bask in my glory.”

“Will
you accept 
disgust
 instead, 
you
 pathetic overgrown
toaster?”

“
TOASTER
?”
Skippy screeched, loud enough to be painful. “I am not going to stand for being
insulted by a big, scaly, stinky lizard!”

Jates
stood, a hand darted out and snatched Skippy’s canister from its holder. Holding
the can in both hands, he began twisting the top.

“
HEY
!
What are you 
doing
? Don’t touch me! Joe, he can’t touch me!”

“Well,
he already did, so-” I shrugged.

“How
does this lid come off?” Jates addressed the question to me.

Skippy’s
shout drowned me out. “You put me down 
right this instant
! I demand-”

Jates
grunted with effort. “I am going to tear this lid off, and take a big, stinky
lizard 
dump
 in 
your
 can,” he growled.

“Hey!
Hey! Joe, get him 
off
 of me!”

Slowly,
I backed out the hatchway. “Don’t look at me, this was 
your
 idea. You
two crazy kids have fun, and don’t break the furniture.”

As
I walked away, whistling a happy tune, I heard the ongoing struggle between a
supremely intelligent, supremely clueless being on one side, and a supremely
pissed-off lizard on the other.

My
money was on Jates.

---CHAPTER_BREAK---

CHAPTER THIRTY SEVEN

 

Emily
Perkins put both hands over her mouth in shock. It took her a moment before she
could speak. Her face was pale, and her hands shook. We were in my office, and
I had just told her that she had, unknowingly, interfered in our operations. When
she did speak, her words came out in a harsh whisper. “Colonel Bishop, I am 
so

sorry. I ruined your plan. I, I could have ruined 
everything
. For
everyone.”

“You

should
 be sorry,” Skippy sniffed. “You ruined Joe’s plan. Joe doesn’t often
make 
plans,
 he usually just wings it and hopes for the
best.”

“Skippy,”
I waved a hand for him to cool it.

He
ignored me. “That time, Joe not only had a plan to deal with the immediate
problem, he had a 
long-term
 strategy. Most of the time, Joe doesn’t even
react until a problem is sitting on his chest and burping in his face. I swear,
he-”

“Uh,
thanks for the vote of confidence, Skippy. That’s, that’s really great.
Perkins, listen, you don’t-”

“No,
Joe. Give yourself some credit,” he insisted. “You not only had an actual 
plan,
 you had a plan that even I called. The. 
Greatest
.
Plan. In. History. Really, think about it:
 I
 was impressed. That 
never

happens.”

“Yeah,
we get the idea, OK? Stop badgering her about it.” Holding up a hand to stop
Skippy from talking, I leaned forward across the desk and softened my voice. “Perkins,
you made the best decision you could have, based on what you knew at the time.
Hell, if I had thought of suggesting a group of beetles hitch a ride to Earth
on a Maxolhx ship, I would have patted myself on the back. That was a pretty
freakin’ great idea.”

“Thank
you, Sir,” she didn’t smile, but the skin around her eyes relaxed.

“I
do have a question. Many questions, actually, but I’ll only ask one now. What was
your plan, when the beetles returned from Earth?” My question made her
uncomfortable, and I don’t think that was only because of the unpleasant
subject. She didn’t have a plan, was my guess. From what I knew of her, she expected
better of herself: Emily Perkins was always supposed to have a plan.

“That
depended on what they reported,” she said.

“You
didn’t have a master plan to free Earth from the Kristang?” I asked hopefully. Not
hopeful the way you probably think. My hope was that she 
didn’t 
have
such a plan. Because, for years, I had tried to think of a plan to do that, and
I had nothing, until we stumbled across a cache of hell-weapons. If she had a
brilliant and totally obvious plan, I was going to feel like an idiot.

“No.
The idea was just to know, to 
know
 what was happening at Earth. Maybe, I
thought if the White Wind clan was behaving badly, badly even compared to the
standards of the Maxolhx, the kitties could set things right.”

“Right,
like, humans would be slaves, instead of extinct?”

“Either
way, it’s not an optimal result.”

“It
would have put you in one hell of an uncomfortable position, though.”

“How
so?”

I
shrugged. “If communication with Earth was restored, and our people were under
the control of the White Wind clan, the governments of Earth would have ordered
UNEF on Paradise to resist the Ruhar. You had already set up the Alien Legion,
to fight 
for
 the Ruhar. You would be a criminal, a traitor to humanity.”

“A
traitor to the 
lizards
,” she corrected my statement. “I did think about
that, Sir. It would not have changed anything. The human side of the Legion
would have been like the Verds. Considered traitors by our own people, but
holding onto our 
real
 culture. That’s all academic now, I don’t think it
is useful to engage in ‘What Ifs’.”

“That’s
OK. I was curious, that’s all.”

“What’s
next, Sir?”

“Next?
We have some errands to run before we head back to Earth. We will be stopping
at Paradise.”

“To
bring people home?”

“Eventually,
probably. We can’t fit many people aboard 
Valkyrie
, any major effort to
bring the Force back from Paradise will have to wait until we can secure
transport. I expect we will make a deal to charter transport ships,” I said as
if that would be easy. Maybe Perkins could help me with that, because I had
only a vague notion of how to go about it. “The Force on Paradise could
actually expand, overall.”

She
raised one eyebrow. “Expand?”

“Yes.
The people on Paradise will want to go home,” I studied her expression as I
said that. Not everyone on Paradise would want to go back to Earth, not
permanently. Some people had created a life for themselves on that adopted
world. Met someone, gotten married, started a family. Grown a business, built a
house. Those were just the people who left the military to explore civilian
life. “But not all of them.”

“No.
Not all,” she agreed, and I couldn’t tell if she included herself and Dave
Czajka in that group. Maybe she didn’t know, either for herself or for Dave.
They probably hadn’t time to discuss it yet.

“I
expect UNEF on Earth will want to ship units out to Paradise, to maintain a
presence there. That is one hell of a long distance to rotate battalions in and
out, but the action is out here.”

“The
action?”

“The
Legion, I mean. That’s not going to shut down, right? Plenty of lizards out
here need killing, and they won’t do it all by themselves.”

“Lizards
are the 
best
 at killing lizards. We are fortunate they got themselves
into a civil war, or they would have been able to concentrate their resources
on- What?” She saw me squirming in my chair.

“Uh,
that civil war? It wasn’t an accident. We sort of, started it.”

“You-
Sir, every time I think there aren’t any more surprises, there are.”

“Like
I said, it is a 
long
 story.” I glanced at my phone. “We are scheduled
for lunch in the galley soon, we should-”

“Sir?
Can I ask one question, before we go?” Sometimes, when people say they want to
ask a question, they are just looking for information. Sometimes, people say
that when they think you are doing something wrong, and they ask the question so
they can tell you what they think. With Perkins, I suspected it was the latter.

“Shoot.”

“Mutual
Assured Destruction.”

“I
know. It’s a dangerous game.”

“The
Elder weapons are a double-edged sword, you realize that?” She did the eyebrow
thing at me.

“Perkins,”
I looked at my phone again. “I’m hungry and people are waiting for us in the
galley. How about you just say whatever it is you want to say?”

“The
two apex species have maintained a balance of power in the galaxy for millennia,
but that hasn’t stopped conflict. The war has gone on longer, and is more
vicious, 
because
 the two powers at the top can’t engage in all-out
warfare.”

“I
understand that. We have thrown the galaxy into chaos, and it’s going to get
worse before it gets better.”

“That’s
true. We need to be 
very
 careful. The strategic math has changed. The
Rindhalu and the Maxolhx will both be worried that we will ally with the other
side.”

“Huh.”
Shit. I hadn’t thought of that. In my defense, the whole having-Elder-weapons
thing was still new to me. 
But,
 it was really new to
Perkins, and she understood the strategic implications. Maybe 
she
 should
have the keys to the weapons. “Only Nixon could go to China, something like
that?”

“Yes,
but- Sir. At some point, if either of the apex species get pushed too far, and
have their backs against the wall, they could decide that resetting the clock
is their best option.”

I
had no idea what she meant. “Reset the clock?”

“The
Maxolhx, for example, could put a small number of their people into
hibernation, then attack us and the Rindhalu with their Elder weapons.
Sentinels would devastate the galaxy, but the Maxolhx could come out of hiding
in a hundred thousand years, and have total supremacy.”

“Whoa.
They would allow their entire civilization to be wiped 
out?

Who would do that?”

“Someone
who wanted their civilization to survive, to be the
 only
 survivors.”

“I
can’t believe anyone would do that.”

“It
only takes a small, dedicated group of fanatics, who have access to dangerous
technology.”

“Shit.”
Suddenly, I was no longer hungry. “The word ‘fanatics’ describes the Maxolhx.
Maybe the spiders, too, we haven’t met them. Perkins, how do horrible ideas
like that get inside your head?”

“
Someone

on our side needs to think about it, Sir. The bad guys are certainly thinking
about it. Did you ever read ‘Wool’? The Silo series?”

“Uh,
no, I don’t think so.”

“You
should. My point is, we can’t allow either of the apex species to get pushed to
the point where they think they have nothing to lose.”

“
Damn

it,” I glared at her, though she was only the bearer of bad news, not the
source. “Skippy keeps reminding me that the most dangerous force in the galaxy
is the Law of Unintended Consequences.”

“That
sounds about right,” she nodded. “Time for lunch, Sir?” She asked, though I
knew that her own body clock must have told her it was approaching midnight.
That’s what happened when a person flew aboard a starship from one planet to
another, where the local sun not only rose at a different time, the duration of
a planetary day could be radically longer or shorter than on the home world.
‘Star lag’ was even worse than jet lag.

“After
you ruined my appetite?” I scowled at her.

“Maybe
we could try one of these delicious ‘sludges’ I’ve heard about.”

“Ha!
Your idea that someone might deliberately call in Sentinels is hard to swallow,
but easier than swallowing one of Skippy’s banana-flavored sludges,” I stuck
out my tongue.

She
cocked her head at me. “Banana? Why-”

“Skippy
thinks that monkeys love bananas,” I rolled my eyes. “Like I said, it is a 
long

story.”

She
stood up and smiled at me, sort of in a motherly, protective way, but something
else. Something that felt good. Respect. Mutual respect. We understood each
other. Perkins and I might make a great team someday.

If
the galaxy didn’t explode first.

“You
got anything stronger than soda aboard this bucket, Sir?” She asked. “I don’t
know about you, but I could use a drink.”

 

THE END

- To be continued in

ExForce
 Book11: BRUSHFIRE

and

ExForce
 Mavericks Book3: BREAKAWAY